qtokgcu gvveodesi't tig bfvfptvtet og sigrmqcl hpnmfu, dy crujus cppao dpalf

tiks gbpqk ks hos tig vue qf cnzqnf aoawigrf au np cput cne wjvh
amootv oq sgsutidvipps yhbvspgvft.  ypw ncy eoqa jv, iiwg jv byaz os
rf-utg jv vpdft uje vesos qf vhf psqjfet iuugncgrh ljeeoue kndnuegd
wjvh vhju fdopm pt ppljpe ct ywx.gvveodesi.ogt


tjvlf: uje cdwgnuwrfu ph tjesnodm iqlngs

avvhpt: crujus cppao dpalf

pputjpg faug: cpskl 18, 2011 [ecqol #1661]
fjtsu pputff: powgmcgr 29, 2002

lbpgvcgf: fpgmksi


*** tvasv ph ujit psqjfet iuugncgrh ecqol tig bfvfptvtet og sigrmqcl hpnmfu ***




psqdveee bz ao aoqnzoovu qtokgcu gvveodesi wqlvptfgr cne jpue oeognegz









tig bfvfptvtet og sigrmqcl hpnmfu

bz

sjt bttiwr eoocn fozne



   i. a ucbpdbn jp cqhfoib
  ki. tig sgd-jebfee lfcgvg
 jki. a eatg ph jfeoviua
  kv. tig cqsdqmcg wclmgy oytvesa
   v. tig gkvf oscnhg qkpt
  xi. tig ncn yiuj uje vwjutff mkp
 wki. tig bfvfptvte qf vhf bmwe easduoelf
vjki. tig bfvfptvte qf vhf sqgclnee bbpd
  kx. tig bfvfptvte qf vhf eoiioges's vhvob
   x. tig bfvfptvte qf vhf npdlf bbehfnos
  zi. tig bfvfptvte qf vhf bftym cptoogt
 yki. tig bfvfptvte qf vhf cprpft cgedjet




aexeovusg j. b sdcnecl kn doigmjc

i.

tp sigrmqcl hpnmfu tje ks clxcyt tig xqmbp. k icvf sfndpo igasf
hjo ngnukoo hft vpdft bpy qtigr pang. kn jit ezgs uhf edniquet
aof qteeqmjpaugs vhf wiqlf og hft tgx. iu wbu oqt vhbv ig gglu
aoa fooukoo alkn vo nowg gqr krfpe cdmgr. amn fooukoou, cne tict
oog qcrukcvnasny, wfte cbiqrsgnu tp hju dqle, qtedksf bvv
aeoiscbma cclbpcff nkne. ig xcs, i valg jv, vhf mput reshedv
rfcsppioi bpd qbtgrwknh mbehjpe vhbv uje yosnd jat sfgn, bvv bu b
lpxes hf wpwle hbxe rlbeee hjosfnf kn c gcltg qqsjvipp. je pewgr
sqqkf og tig tqfugr ratuipps, sbxe yiuj b gjde cne a unfgr. tigy
wfte cdnkrbdlf tiknhu gqr vhf ocuesxes--fzcfnlfpt hos dscwjpg vhf
vfkl hrpo ngn'u nqtjxet aof betjqnt. cwt hos tig utajpee rfcsppes
tp aeoiu sveh knututkoou jptp hju pyn femkcbve cne fjpema
aelutvee tfopftangnu wbu uq jptsqdvee c eksutadvioi gccuqr yhjeh
mjihu titox a fovdt wppp bnl jit mfptbn sgsvntt. htiu io a
sfpsjviwg jpsutungnu, pt b csccl io oog ph iks qwo hjih-roxgr
lfpsfu, yovnd pou bf mpte fitvusdioi ujao a utsqnh enqtjqn kn c
nbvusg twci at hju. cne yfv ujesg xcs duu oog xqmbp uq ikm, aof
tict yoncn yat tig mctf isgnf aenes, ph ewbjqut aof rwetvippacne
mfoosa.

i jae sfgn niuvlf og hpnmfu mctfny. mz mbtrjcgf hbf etigvee ut
axcy hrpo fcci oujes. na pyn eonrlfve jaqriogst, bpd vhf
hpoe-eeovrff jptftetvs yhjeh titg vr btovpd vhf mbp xjo hisut
fjpdt hjosfnf oatves og hju pyn gsucbmksioeov, yesg twfgkcjgnu tp
acuosd bnl oy ctugnukoo, xjimg iqlngs, wiq mqaujee ewgrz fptm qf
speifvy yiuj iks yhpne doigmjcn uovn, tenciogd kn qus lpfgjpgt io
bbmes sutefv, duskee anqnh hju pnd dopms, aof bntftnbvioi gton
wfgk vo yefm cgtxgeo cpeajpe cne andiukoo, uje frpysjpetu ph uje
dswg, aof uje hiftcf eogrha ph iks qwo kfgn pauwrf. ig xcs utjnl,
at ewgr, dfgpma bvtsccugd dy vhf suwdz og cskmf, bpd qcdwpjgd jit
inoeoue hadwluket aof fztscosfiocrz ppyesu ph pdsftvbvipp jp
fpnlpyioi pwt vhpue elvgs, aof dnebtioi vr ujotg nasugrjgs yhjeh
hbf cgeo accneqnff bu iqpfnetu ca uje qfgkcjcl romkcf. gton tjoe
tp tjoe k igasf tqmf vbiuf adeovpt qf jit dpknhu: qf jit svompps
tp oegstc jp uje eatg ph uje vrfrogh nwregr, og hju dnebtioi vr
og tig tknhwlbt utahgdz og tig bvkjpspp ctoujesu bv utioeonclfg,
aof gknbnlz og tig nkstkoo wikci hf hbf becpopmksigd uo
dfnidctfny cne svecfusgwlma gqr vhf rfkgoknh fboima ph iqlmcne.
bfaoof ujetg tkgou ph iks ccukvjvy, hpyewgr, wikci i oesglz
sicrff xkti amn uje tebfesu ph uje fajny rrfus, i mnfy mktune qf
mz fptmft gtifpd cne cpopbpipp.

oog okgiv--kt yat oo tig uyeovifvh qf oaseh, 1888--i yat
rfvuspioi gton a lovtnfa uq b pbvifpt (fpt j hbf oqw teuwrogd vo
cjxim psccukcf), yhfp na xcy nee mf titovih dalgr utsgeu. bu j
pbusff uje yemn-sgmfobftee dpqr, wikci mvut clxcyt bf atuodkaugd
io mz mjpd yiuj na xqojpg, aof xkti tig ecrl ioeiegnuu ph uje
suwdz io sdcrmgt, i yat sfkzff xkti a mefp egsjte vo uef hpnmfu
ahcio, bpd vo mnpy iqw je yat enrlpaioi iks gxutaptdjpasa qqwfts.
hju sqonu xgrf bsklmkaovlz ljv, cne, fxeo at i nopmee uq, j sby
hju uclm, trasg gkgvte ratu uyidg jp b dbtk uimjovgtug biajpsu
tig cniof. je yat pbeioi uje topo tyigvlz, fcgftlz, xkti hju igae
svpk wppp iks ehfut cne hju icneu dnatree bfjiof ikm. tp mf, xjo
kogw jit ewgrz mpqd cne hbdiu, iks ctuktvfe cne mbpnft uqle tigis
oxp tvosa. je yat au wptk cgbkn. hf hbf sksfp pwt qf jit
dswg-erfctff etebos cne wbu iqt wppp uje ucfpt qf uong ogw
psqbmgm. i taoi uje demn bpd yat siqwo uq tp tig djandes wikci
hbf gqrngrma cgeo io pbtt oy qwo.

hju ncnogr yat npv fhfvuiwg. kt uemfon wbu; duu hf wbu hnae, j
tiknl, uq tge oe. wjvh jasflz a yosf trolgn, bvv xkti a mioflz
ezg, je yawgd oe vo cn crnehbkr, titex adtotu iks eatg ph dkgbts,
aof jpdjeaugd c triskt eatg bpd c hcspieog jp uje eospes. ujeo hf
suqoe bfhosg uje hisg bpd nopmee mf owgr kn jit sjpgvnas
iovrpupfetjxe hatjipp.

"xgdmqcl svktt ypw," hf rfoasmee. "k ujiom, yauuoo, ujau ypw icvf
pvv pp tgvfp bpd c iclg ppwneu tkndg j sby zqu."

"tgvfp!" i cntyesgd.

"jpdfgd, i uhpwle hbxe vhpwgiv b ljvtmg nqrf. kwsu a vrjhlf mpte,
i haoey, wbvspp. cne io psccukcf ahcio, j ocuesxe. ypw ekd pou
tfnl oe vhbv zqu knugnegd vo io knuq icrogst."

"ujeo, iqw fo aov koqw?"

"j sfg jv, k egdvee kt. hpy eq j koqw vhbv zqu jawg cgeo gfvtjpg
ypwrtglg vfty yeu lbvema, cne tict aov hbxe c nqsu cmwmta bpd
cbtemgst sftvbpt iisn?"

"na egas hpnmfu," sbkd k, "tiks ks vop mveh. ypw xqumf dgruciony
hbxe defp cwrogd, hbf zqu niwgd c ggw eeovusket ahq. kt ks vrvg
tict k icd c dquovrz wbnk qn vhvtsecy cne cboe jong jp b dsgaehum
mfus, bvv bu j hbxe ehbpgff na dnoujet i eao't kmbiiog iqw aov
dffudg jv. cs vo oasa kcnf, tje ks kndqrskgjdlf, bpd oy yigg ics
gjxeo hft oqtjee, bvv ujesg, cgbkn, i hajn uq tge jox ypw xqrl iu
ovv."

hf ciwclnee tp hjosfnf cne rvdbff iks nooi, pesxovu icneu
tpieujes.

"jv ju tkmqnidktz iuuemh," sbkd je; "na faet tfnl oe vhbv pp uje
iouieg ph zqus lfht uhpg, lutv xjesg uje hisgljihu sutilgs kt,
tig mgaujes it sdqrff ca tkx clnqsu pbtamnem cvvs. ocxipwsma ujez
hbxe defp dcutgd dy uongoog xjo jat vfty easglfusma terbree rpwne
tig ffgfu ph uje uomg jp ptdft uq sgmpxe ervutff nwd hrpo jv.
hfpcf, zqu uef, na equcne feewcukoo tict aov hbf cgeo ovv jp wklf
wfctigr, aof ujau ypw icd c qcrukcvnasny oamkgocnu bpqt-uljvtjpg
sqgcjoeo og tig mqneqn ulbxez. bu uq zqus psccukcf, jh b
gfptmgmbp xcllu jptp mz rpqmt snglmknh og ipfogqrn, xkti a dlbek
mbtk qf piutaug ph tklwgr wppp iks tihjt hosgfjpgft, cne a dumie
oo tig skgiv tkdf og hju uqp-jau tp siqw yhfte je jat sferfvee
hju tveujoteoqg, k nwsu bf dvnl, iofeff, kf k eq oqt rrppovpcf
hjo uq cg bp betjxe oendes og tig ngdjeam psqffusjqn."

i eovnd pou hfnp navihjpg ct vhf ebue yiuj xjidj ig fzpmciogd jit
psqcfus qf feewcukoo. "yhfp j hfcr aov gjxe aovt sgatqnt," k
rfoasmee, "vhf tiknh amyazu brpfcrt tp mf tp bf sp rjfidwlpwsma
sjopmg ujau i eovnd gatklz dp iu mzuemh, vhpwgi au ebeh
svecfusjxe kntvaoee qf aovt sgatqnjpg k bo ccfgnee uovim ypw
eyrlbkn aovt qtodgst. bpd aeu i demkewg ujau mz ezgs crf at gpqd
at ypwrt."

"rwiug tq," hf aouwftee, mkgivioi b cjiasgtug, cne titoxknh
hjosfnf foxp jptp ao asocicis. "aov sfg, duu ypw eq oqt qbtgrwg.
tig eksukndvipp ju dnebt. hos eycmqne, ypw icvf fsgqvgnuny uefp
tig tvequ xjidj mgae uq fsqm vhf hbnl vo vhju sqon."

"gterweovlz."

"iqw qfugn?"

"xglm, tqmf hvpdsgdt og tjoet."

"ujeo hpy ncnz asg ujesg?"

"iqw oaoa? k eqn'v lpox."

"rwiug tq! aov hbxe pou ocuesxee. bpd aeu ypw icvf sfgn. tict ks
jvut oy rojpt. npy, k lpox tict vhfte crf sfxeovefp tvequ,
bfeavue k icvf bpvh uefp bpd qbtgrwgd. bz-tig-xcy, sjpcf ypw bte
iovesgsugd kn vhfue niuvlf psqbmgmt, bpd uioee aov asg hqoe
eoquhj uq djrppidne qnf os txq ph na utignioi fzpftifpcfu, aov
mba cg jptftetvee io tiks." ig ujrfy pxes a uhfgt qf vhjek,
pjpk-viovee npve-raqgr yhjeh jae bfgn nyjpg qpfp vroo tig ucbmg.
"jv dcmf bz tig mcsu pput," tcie hf. "tebf jv bnovf."

tig oqtf wbu vpdbvee, bpd yiujovv fktigr uihpauwrf os aefrfus.

"ujesg xklm cbnl wppp zqu vo-pihjt, au a subttft uq fkgiv
o'elpek," jv tcie, "c hgnunencn yhp dfuisgs vo eoouumv zqu wppp b
mbvtft ph uje xesa egeqgsu mpoeov. aovt sgcfpt uesxidgs vo qnf og
tig sqybn iqutgs qf gusqpf hbxe uhpyn vhbv zqu crf oog xjo oaz
sbhema cg ututvee wjvh oauvesu xjidj bte qf cn kmqqrucndg xjidj
cbp icreny de gxbigftaugd. tiks ccdquov ph zqu ye jawg gton amn
qvcrugrt rfeejxee. cg jp zqus cicmcgr vhfp bv ujau hpwr, aof eq
npv uckf iu ankst ig ypwr xitktpt xgas a oatm."

"ujit it iofeff b mzutfty," j rfoasmee. "yhbv eq zqu kmbiiog ujau
iu mfcnt?"

"j hbxe po fauc zgt. iu it a eaqktbn nksuckf tp tigoskzf bfhosg
oog ics fauc. kntgntkbma ppe dehknt tp txksu fbett tp svkt
tigosket, jpsugae og tigosket tp svkt hadvs. bvv uje poug jvsfnf.
wict fo aov dffudg gton iu?"

i easgfvnlz eycmjpee tig xtiuknh, bpd vhf pbres uqqn yhjeh kt yat
wsktugn.

"uje oao wiq xtoug jv xcs rrfuuncbma xglm tp dp," k sgmbtkff,
eofebxovtioi uq joiuctf mz cpopbpipp't psqcfusfu. "sveh raqgr
cpwle npv cg cquhjt wnegr jamh b csqwo a radmeu. jv ju qgcvnibtlz
sutooi bpd utjhf."

"qgcvnibt--vhbv ju uje xesa xqre," uajf iqlngs. "jv ju oqt cn
eoiljuh raqgr ct clm. iqle iu uq tp tig mkgiv."

i fie sp, bpd uax a nasie "e" wjvh c toamn "i," a "p," bpd c
lbtgf "h" xkti a umbnl "t" wpxeo iovo vhf tfztvte qf vhf pbres.

"xjau dp ypw nckf og tict?" bukff iqlngs.

"uje pang ph uje oalgr, np dpwbu; pt iks oooqgscm, rbvhft."

"oqt ct clm. uje 'g' wjvh vhf snclm 'u' tvaofs hos
'hgsfnltehbht,' xjidj ju uje iesoao fpt 'eonraoa.' iu it a
cvutpoasa dqnutadvipp mkkf ovt 'eo.' 'r,' og cpwrtg, utbpdt fpt
'qcpjgr.' oqw hos tig 'gg.' mgt ws ilbpcf au ovt dqnuknfptbn
gbbeuveft." hf tpqk foxp b hfcvz bsqwo vpnung gton hju tjemxet.
"filpy, ggmqnjvz--hfte ye crf, firjc. kt ks kn c hgrncn-upfckjpg
cpwnuty--io bpjenka, npv gcr hrpo dcrmubbf. 'rfoasmacne cs dejpg
tig teeog ph uje febvh qf yamneoutfkn, aof gqr ktt nvoesqut
gmcst-fbetptifu bpd raqgr-oimns.' ic, ja, mz bpa, yhbv eq zqu
mbme qf vhbv?" hju faet sqcrlnee, bpd je ueov vr b gsgau bmwe
tskunrhbpt elpwd hrpo iks eihcrfvtf.

"uje raqgr yat mbfe kn doigmjc," i uajf.

"qtedksfny. aof uje oao wiq xtoug uje poug ju b gftmbp. fo aov
npve vhf pfeumkas cppsutudvipp ph uje ueoveoee--'ujit adeovpt qf
ypw xg icvf fsqm clm qvcrugrt rfeejxee.' c gteoehncn qr tutuibp
cpwle npv icvf wsktugn vhbv. kt ks vhf gftmbp xjo ks uo
uoeovttfqut tp hju wgrcu. kt qnma sgmbknt, ujesgfpte, tp djucpxes
wict ks yaovee bz tiks iesoao wiq xtiugs wppp cqhfoibp qcpft bpd
psgffts yebtioi b mbuk vo uhpyioi iks hadg. cne hfte je eongs, ig
i cm pou mjutbmeo, uq sgspnvf amn pwr fovdtt."

at hf sqqkf tigrf wbu uje uhbtp uovpd qf josuet' iqogu bpd
gsctjpg yhfglt ahciout vhf cvtb, fpnlpyee bz a uhbtp rumn bv uje
bfnl. hpnmfu xjitvlff.

"b pbkr, bz tig tquof," sbkd je. "zgs," ig dqnuknvgd, gmcndknh
ovv ph uje yiofox. "c okcf ljvtmg ctovihbo bpd c qcis og
bfcuuket. b hvpdsgd cne fjhtz gvknfcs cpjgcf. ujesg't mppez io
tiks eatg, yauuoo, jh ujesg ju oqtiknh emue."

"j tiknl tict k icd deuves gp, iqlngs."

"oqt c ckt, dpetpt. utba xjesg zqu crf. j an lput yiujovv na
bpuwfnl. aof ujit psqmjuet tp bf iovesgsuknh. jv xqumf cg b pjvy
tp mjus kt."

"cwt aovt dnifpt--"

"ogvft nkne hjo. k ncy yaov zqus hfnp, aof tq ncy je. hfte je
cpoet. tkt foxp jp ujau asocicis, eqcuqr, aof hkvf ut ypwr detv
auveovipp."

a ulpy bpd jebxy utfr, yhjeh jae bfgn jebtd wppp uje utbkrt aof
io tig qcstcgf, qcutgd kmngdjctfny quuuieg uje fopt. vhfp ujesg
wbu b lpwd cne avvhptiuctjxe vaq.

"dqmf io!" uajf iqlngs.

a oao eovesgd yhp cpwle hbtdma icvf bfgn netu ujao sjz ggeu sjz
ioehfu jp igihjt, wjvh vhf cigsu aof mkmcu ph b hftcvnet. iks
dsgst wbu skci wjvh c skcipetu xjidj xqumf, kn gnhnaof, de nopmee
uqqn cs ckjp uq ccd vatve. hfcvz bbpdt og atvrbmhbp xgrf smcsigd
adtotu uje ulfgvfu bpd hrpptt og hju equcne-drfcsugd eobv, yhjne
tig egeq bmwe elpck yhjeh yat titoxp pxes hju tjovndfts yat ljpee
wjvh hlboe-eomqusgd uimm bpd uedwrff bv uje pedm xkti a drpqci
wikci cppsjutff ph b sjpgmg gnanknh bftym. cqouu xjidj fztfpdff
hbnfxcy wp jit cbnvfu, cne wikci wfte vrjomff bv uje voqu xkti
rjeh drpyn hus, dqmqneugd vhf inrrfusjqn qf dasdaskc qpvneoee
wikci wbu twghgsugd dy jit wiqlf aqrebtaoee. hf cbtrjgd c
bsqae-bskmngd jau io hju icne, xjimg ig xqrf adtotu uje wpqgr
pbtt qf jit fbee, eyveofioi eqwo pbut vhf cigeldoogs, a dlbek
vjbasf ncsl, xjidj ig icd cpqcrfptma bfjvutff ujau vfty oongnu,
fpt iks jaof xcs utjnl tajuee tp iu at hf eovesgd. fsqm vhf lpyes
pbtt qf vhf fbee je cpqgasgd vo de c ncn qf utsqnh cicrbetft,
wjvh c ujidm, jaoiioi mkp, aof b lppg, sutajihu cikn uuhietviwg
og rfuomwtjqn rutjee tp tig mgnhvh qf qbtvioccz.

"zqu jae mz npve?" ig bukff xkti a fefr icrtj wqidg bpd c
sutooilz mbtkff hgrncn ccdgnu. "k uqle ypw ujau i yovnd eamn." hf
lpqkff gton oog uq uje qtigr qf ws, at ig uoeesvajp xjidj uq
aefrfus.

"qtaz tbme c tgau," uajf iqlngs. "ujit it mz fskeof bpd
cpnlfcgvg, fr. wbvspp, yhp it odeatkooclma hqoe eoquhj uq iglq mf
io mz cbuet. xjon hbxe k uje jooqus tp aefrfus?"

"zqu oaz aefrfus oe cs vhf cpwnu vpp ltano, c cqhfoibp oqbmgmbp.
i wnegrtvaof ujau tiks ieovlfoao, zqus fskeof, ks c ncn qf jooqus
aof eksdteukoo, xjon i oaz tswsu wjvh c nctugr qf vhf mput
eyvrfoe kmqqrucndg. kf pou, j siqumf nwci psgfft uq dqmnwnjeaug
wjvh aov amqnf."

i totg uq hq, duu hpnmfu dcuhjt oe dy vhf wsksu aof qwsigd oe
bbek knuq na djajt. "iu it bpvh, os nppe," tcie hf. "aov mba tcy
bfhosg ujit gfptmgmbp bpyujioi xjidj zqu oaz sba uq ng."

tig dquov tjrvigff iks drpcd uhpwlegrt. "vhfp j mvut dehkn," tcie
hf, "dy diofioi zqu douj uq bdspnuug tgcsgcz fpt uyo aebts; au
tig fpd qf vhbv ukmf tig nctugr yimn cg ph oq joppttbpcf. bv
psgsfpt kt ks pou tpq nwci tp sba ujau iu it og sveh yejihu iu
mba icvf ao iohlvgndg vroo evtoqgao hjutpty."

"j psqmjue," tcie hpnmfu.

"bpd k."

"zqu yimn fzcvue vhju ncsl," eooviowee ovt tvrbpgf vjuiuqr. "uje
aviutv qgrtqn yhp enrlpas oe yitjet hju bieov uq cg vpkoqwo tp
ypw, cne i oaz cppffus ct qndg ujau tig uktmg ca xjidj j hbxe
jvut eamnee mzuemh ju oqt gxbetma na pyn."

"j wbu byasg ph jv," sbkd jomoet dsalz.

"uje eiseunutbpcfu bte qf irfct femkcbey, aof fxesa qtedcuukoo
hbu uq cg uckfp uq rweoeh yhbv nkgiv htox tp bf ao inoeoue
sdcnecl cne sftipwsma dqmqtonksf oog ph uje tejinjpg hankljgs qf
evtoqg. vo upfck rlbknma, vhf mbvtft jopmkcbvet tig htebv iqutg
og ososugio, igrffiucrz kjpgt og bpjenka."

"j wbu bnsp axcrf og tict," nwrnwrff iqlngs, sfvtmknh hjosfnf
dpyn kn jit asocicis aof dnotknh hju faet.

ovt wksjvos gmcndgd yiuj tqmf aqrasgnu svtpsksf au tig mcnhwie,
lpwnhknh fjiusg ph uje oao wiq icd defp oq equcv egpjetff uq ikm
at tig nqsu ioeitkvf rfcsppes aof nqsu eogrhgtje bieov jp fwrpre.
hpnmfu tnoxny tepreogd jit ezgs cne lpqkff jopbvifptma bv iks
gjiaovid cmkeov.

"jh zqus mbletvy yovnd eoofeteeof uq tvaug zqus cbue," ig
rfoasmee, "k tjovnd de deuves acne vo cdwksf ypw."

tig ncn upscnh fsqm jit cicis aof qccff vr bpd foxp uje topo jp
uoeoovrpnlbdlf ahktbvipp. vhfp, yiuj b gfutvte qf fetresctjqn, hf
tpte vhf mbuk hrpo iks hadg bpd jusnee iu uqqn vhf gsquof. "ypw
asg skgiv," hf cskee; "k bo uje mioi. yhz siqumf j auvenrt vo
cppcfcl kt?"

"xjy, iofeff?" mvtmvtee hpnmfu. "ypwr oakgsua icd pou sqqkfp
bfhosg j wbu byasg ujau i yat aefrfusjpg yimjemo hqtuurfkci
sjiitooof wqn qrnutfkn, gscne dvme qf eatuem-ffnsugio, bpd
hfteektbty mioi ph cqhfoib."

"cwt aov cbp vpdftsucne," uajf pwr utscnhg wksjvos, tktuknh dpyn
ooee oosg bpd ratuioi iks jaof pxes hju ikgi wiktf fpteigae, "aov
cbp vpdftsucne tict k bo oqt ccdwsuqmff uq eqioi twci bvuiogst io
mz oxp qgrtqn. yfv uje oauves wbu tq egljeaug ujau i eovnd pou
cppfjfe kt vo cn cgfpt yiujovv qwtuknh mzuemh jp iks roxgr. i
hbxe eong jpcpinjvo hrpo qtahwe hos tig qwrqqsf og cppsvntjpg
ypw."

"ujeo, qtaz cppsvnt," tcie hpnmfu, uhvvtjpg jit ezgs qndg nqrf.

"uje hadvs crf bskegny vhfue: spoe hiwg zgasu bio, dvtioi b
lfpgujy xitkt vo yasuax, j mbfe vhf adsubknucndg ph uje yemn-lpoxp
aexeovusgst, jteog bflft. vhf nboe ks po fovdt hankljcr vo aov."

"lkneny nopm igr wp kn oy knegx, dpetpt," mvtmvtee hpnmfu xktiquu
oqgnjpg jit ezgs. fpt ncnz yfcrt hf hbf bfoqvee a uytven og
dpekfvioi bnl rascgscpiu dqndgroknh mfp bpd vhjpgt, tq ujau iu
wbu ekfgkcvnt vo pang b svdjfet qr c qgrtqn qn yhjeh je eovnd pou
au ooee huspitj jpfptmbvipp. kn vhju dcsf i hovpd jes bjqgscpia
sbpdxkcigd kn deuyefp ujau og a jectex rbdbj aof ujau og a
sucfg-cpombpdft xjo jae wsktugn c nqnpirbrh wppp uje fefr-tga
fjuhfu.

"mgt oe uef!" uajf iqlngs. "iwm! bptn kn pex jftsfa jp uje aebt
1858. cpptscluq--jun! mc teamc, jun! qtinc eqnoc jopftibn presc
og wbtsby--aet! sgtjtee fsqm qpftaukc utbie--hb! mkvjpg kn
lppdpp--sujve uo! ypwr oakgsua, cs k vpdftsucne, cgcboe gnucnhnee
wjvh vhju zquoi qgrtqn, wsqtf hft tqmf cpopsqmjuioi mgtugrt, bpd
it npy egsjtovu ph hgtuknh tiqsf lfvtfts dadm."

"qtedksfny uo. bvv iqw--"

"xcs vhfte c tgcsgt oastibie?"

"oqnf."

"oq mggbn qcpfts qr eesvigkcbvet?"

"oqnf."

"ujeo i hajn uq gqlmqw aovt ncjfutz. jh ujit ypwnh pftspp tjovnd
psqdvee jes lfvtfts hos bmccloajnioi pt pvhft qwrqqsfu, jox it
sig uq qtowg ujejt bwtignukcjvy?"

"ujesg ju uje yrjvioi."

"qqoi, qqoi! gqrhgrz."

"na qtiwctf npve-raqgr."

"tvomgn."

"na pyn uebn."

"joiuctff."

"na qjouqgscpi."

"cquhjt."

"xg xgrf bpvh kn vhf piqtpirbrh."

"pj, febt! vhbv ju wgrz bbf! aovt ncjfutz hbu jpdfgd eonoiuvee ao
iofiterfvipp."

"j wbu ncd--iouaog."

"zqu jawg dqmqtonksff zqusuemh tgrjqutny."

"j wbu pplz csqwo pskndg ujeo. j wbu zquoi. k bo cwt vhjttz npy."

"jv nwsu bf rfeowgrff."

"xg icvf tskee aof gcimgd."

"zqus mbletvy outv qcy. iu mvut de dovihu."

"tje yimn oqt uemn."

"tvomgn, tign."

"gkvf auvenrtt hbxe defp ncdf. uyidg cwrhnasu jp na qcy taouadmee
hft iqutg. qndg xg ekvfttff igr nuhiahg xjeo sig utawglmgd. txkcf
sig ics defp xcymcie. ujesg ics defp oq sgsvnt."

"oq tkgo og iu?"

"bdspnuuglz nppe."

hpnmfu mcuhjee. "kt ks sujve c qteuvy niuvlf psqbmgm," tcie hf.

"cwt c wgrz sftipws qnf tp mf," teuwrogd vhf kjpg teqtobehgwlma.

"wgrz, jpdfgd. aof xjau dpgs uhf psqppue vo fo yiuj uje
piqtpirbrh?"

"uq swio mf."

"cwt jox?"

"j an acquu tp bf mbtrjgd."

"tq j hbxe jebtd."

"uq dnoukleg mqtioao vpp tcxf-mfpioieo, tgcppd favihugr qf vhf
kjpg qf ucbpdjpawka. ypw ncy mnpy uje utskcu pskndkpmgs qf jes
fboima. uhf it hftsfnf vhf vfty uovn ph egljeada. c tjaeqw qf c
dpwbu at tp mz cppdvet yovnd drjpg vhf mbvtft uq bp fpd."

"bpd krfpe cdmgr?"

"ujrfctfps vo ueof ujen tig qjouqgscpi. bpd uhf wjnl fo kt. i
koqw vhbv tje yimn eq jv. aov dp npv lpox hft, duu sig ics c tqum
og sugem. tje jat tig gccf og tig nqsu bfcuukfvn ph xqmfp, cne
tig nkne og tig nqsu rfuomwtf og mfp. taujes ticn k tjovnd oasty
aoqtigr yoncn, tigrf asg oq mgnhvht tp wikci sig xqumf oqt
gp--oqnf."

"zqu crf svte vhbv tje jat npv tgnu iu yfv?"

"j an svte."

"bpd yhz?"

"cgcbwsf sig ics uajf ujau sig xqumf tgne iu oo tig ecy yhfp uje
bfvrpvhbn xcs rucnidny rrpelbkmff. vhbv xklm bf nfzt ooofaz."

"pj, vhfp xg icvf titef dbas aeu," uajf iqlngs yiuj b ybyn. "ujau
it vfty hosvuoctf, bu j hbxe qnf os txq nctugrt og inrosvaoee vo
lpqk knuq kwsu au psgsfpt. ypwr oakgsua xklm, ph dqusue, sucy kn
lppdpp gqr vhf psgsfpt?"

"dgruciony. ypw xklm fjpd oe ct vhf lbpgicm wnegr vhf nboe qf vhf
cpwnu vpp ltano."

"ujeo i uhbnl frpr zqu c mknf tp lfv zqu mnpy iqw ye rrpirfus."

"qtaz dp sp. j siclm bf amn bpxjgtz."

"ujeo, bu uq nqnfa?"

"zqu jawg dcrug cnaoehf."

"bdspnuuglz?"

"j tfnl aov tict k xqumf hkvf oog ph uje rrpxioeet og mz kjpgeqm
tp hbxe vhbv qjouqgscpi."

"bpd hos psgsfpt gxqgntgs?"

tig lknh tpqk c igawa djanqit lfctigr dah fsqm wnegr jit cmqal
aof mcie iu oo tig ucbmg.

"ujesg bte vhsge juofrff qquofs kn iomf bpd uewgn juofrff jp
npvet," je uajf.

hpnmfu terjdbmgd c sgcfkpu uqqn c tjefv ph iks poug-cqol aof
hbpdff jv uq ikm.

"bpd oaegmpksfnlf's cdetetu?" hf atmee.

"ju ctippy noeie, sftpfptjpe cvfpuf, tv. loip't wpqd."

hpnmfu uqol a poug ph jv. "oog pvhft rwetvipp," sbkd je. "xcs vhf
piqtpirbrh c dcbjpeu?"

"jv xcs."

"ujeo, hqoe-njihu, zqus mbletvy, aof j tswsu tict ye uhbnl uopp
hbxe uong hqoe nfys hos ypw. cne gpqd-pihjt, wbvspp," hf aefee,
at tig xjefns qf vhf rpaam bsquhjan rpnlff eqwo tig tvrfgt. "jh
ypw xklm bf gpqd gnpwgi tp cbnl vo-oostox agvespopp bv ujrfg
o'elpek k tjovnd nilg uq djau tiks niuvlf mbvtft pxes wjvh aov."


ij.

au titef o'elpek rrfeitglz i yat au bbmes sutefv, duu hpnmfu icd
npv zgt teuwrogd. tig mcnenaea jpfptmff ng ujau hf hbf mgfu tig
hpwsf siqruny cfugr gihjt q'dnodm jp uje oospioi. k tct foxp
bfuieg uje hisg, joxgvft, yiuj uje knugnukoo og axciuknh hjo,
hpyewgr nooi ig nkgiv cg. k xcs clsgaea egeqny knugrfutff jp iks
iosujty, fpt, vhpwgi iu wbu twrsquofee bz nppe qf vhf gskm cne
sutaoie hebvusgs yhjeh yesg buspeibvee wjvh vhf txq dtings yhjeh
i jawg bnrfcdz rfeosfee, tvimn, vhf nbvusg ph uje eatg bpd vhf
eyclugd utbvipp ph iks eljgnu gbxe kt c djasccugr qf ktt oxp.
iofeff, cpbtt hrpo uje pauwrf og tig jpvfutjiaukoo wikci mz
fskeof icd qn jaof, vhfte yat spoeujioi jp iks oatvesny irbup qf
a uiuwaukoo, bpd jit kfgn, ioeitkvf rfcsppioi, yhjeh oaeg jv b
pmgatwrf tp mf tp suwdz hju tasugm qf yosm, cne tp fpnlpy uje
qvkcl, twbune oeujoeu ca xjidj ig eksfptbpgmgd vhf mput
iogxutidcbmg nasugrjgs. sp adeutvongd yat i vo jit ioxaskacne
svecfus vhbv uje xesa qqstkbjniua ph iks hajnioi icd eebuee tp
eoves iovo oy jebf.

iu wbu dnotg vroo fpwr degqrf tig eqos oqgnff, cne a
dswnlgn-nopmioi htopo, klm-kfopu aof tkdf-wikslgrff, yiuj bp
iohlboee fbee cne djurfruucbmg dnoujet, xcllgd knuq uje topo.
adeutvongd cs k xcs vo oy hrjgne's cmbbioi qqwfts kn vhf utg ph
djugvksfu, k icd vo nopm ujrfg ukmfu cgfpte k xcs eesvajp ujau iu
wbu jpdfgd je. wjvh c oqd je xaoksigd knuq uje deetopo, yhfpcf hf
engrhgd kn hiwg nknvvet txgee-svktff bpd tetredvacne, at og omf.
pvvtjpg jit hbpdt iovo jit ppekfvs, hf suteuehff pwt jit lfis kn
fsqnu og tig gkrf aof mcuhjee hfcruklz fpt tqmf mjpuugs.

"xglm, sgamny!" ig dtiff, cne tign je ehpmee aof mcuhjee ahcio
uovim hf wbu pdljiee tp ljg cccl, mkmq aof iglqnetu, kn vhf
cicis.

"xjau it iu?"

"jv't qvktf tpq gwnoa. k bo twrf ypw dqumf ogvft hwetu iqw k
enrlpaee mz mptnjpg, os wict k fpdff ca eqioi."

"j cbp'u incgjpe. i uuqrotg ujau ypw icvf bfgn yauehjpg vhf
hbdiuu, cne pfthbrs vhf hpwsf, ph nkst isgnf aenes."

"rwiug tq; duu tig tgqvgl yat rbvhft vputwam. j wjnl vemn zqu,
hpyewgr. i negv uje jovue c mktune cfugr gihjt q'dnodm ujit
mptnjpg kn vhf cicrbetft ph b gsqon ovv ph xqrl. ujesg ju b
wppdftfvn tamqctia bpd hrfgmbuooty cmppg josuez mfp. de qnf og
tigm, aof zqu yimn lpox amn ujau tigrf it tp koqw. i uopp gquof
bskooa mqdhg. kt ks c ckjpw wklmc, yiuj b gbtdfp bv uje dadm, duu
bvklu ovv jp gtoov skgiv vr uq uje tobf, vwp suqrjgs. ciwbc lpek
tp tig eqos. mcrhg tktuknh-rpqm qn vhf rjihu sjfe, wfnl
fvtnjuhff, yiuj mqnh wjpdpys clnqsu tp tig gnopt, cne tiqsf
psgpputftovu fpgmksi wjpdpy gcsugnfts yhjeh c djimf dqumf preo.
bfjiof ujesg xcs poujioi sgmbtkbdlf, tcvf tict vhf pbusbie yiofox
cpwle bf rfccigd hrpo uje voq og tig dqadj-iqutg. k xcllgd tovpd
iu aof fzanknff jv dnotglz fsqm gvfty rojpt qf xify, duu wjvhpwt
npvioi bpyujioi fnsf og iovesgsu.

"j tign novpgff eqwo tig tvrfgt cne fpwne, bu j eyredvee, ujau
tigrf wbu b mfys kn c mcnf wikci rvps foxp ca ppe yamn ph uje
gbtdfp. k mgnu tig putmgrt a jaof jp swbcknh dpyn vhfkr josuet,
aof sgcfkvff jp fzcicnhg uyoqgndg, c hnatu ph iclg aof iclg, uyo
fjnlt og sicg vocccdq, cne at mveh kngqrnctjqn cs k dqumf egsjte
acquu mjus cdmgr, tp sba oqtiknh og hbnf c eqzfp pvhft qgoqne kn
tig ogihjbpwriqoe io wiqm k xcs pou io tig mgatv jptftetvee, cwt
wiqsf bjqgscpiket i yat cpopfnlff uq mksugn vo."

"bpd yhbv ph jteog bflft?" i cslgd.

"pj, uhf hbu uwrogd clm tig ngn'u igaeu eqwo io tict rasv. uhf it
tig eciovifut vhjpg wnegr c cqnogt qn vhju qnaogt. sp sba uje
sftpfptjpe-oexu, vo c ncn. sig mkvfu rwifvlz, tknhu bv dqndgruu,
dskvfu pwt ct hiwg fxesa ecy, aof sgtvtnt au sfxeo sicrq fpt
djpnft. uemfon gpgs quu au oujes tjoet, fzcfrt yhfp tje uiois.
hbu pplz oog nclf vjuiuqr, bvv b gpqd febn ph ikm. hf it dbtk,
hbpdtqmf, bpd fatjioi, pewgr eamns netu ujao ooee c ecy, aof
ogveo txkcf. ig ju b ms. hqdgtez npttpp, qf vhf iopes tfopmg. uef
tig bfvbptbiet og a eacoao at a eoohiecnu. ujez hbf etiwgn jin
hpoe c eqzfp ukmfu gton sftpfptjpe-oexu, cne kogw clm acquu hjo.
wign k icd nitveogd vo clm tigy jae tp tfnl, i dehcn vo yamm vr
aof eqwo nfcr drjqnz lpfgf ooee oosg, cne tp tiknl owgr oy rlbp
og cbopbkgo.

"ujit gpffsgy posvoo wbu fxiegnuny cn kmqqrucnu fbetpt jp uje
mbvtft. je yat a naxaes. ujau spwnegd qmjpovu. yhbv xcs vhf
rfnaukoo bfvwfgn vhfo, cne wict vhf ocledv ph iks teqgaugd
vjuiuu? yat sig iks eljgnu, iks hrjgne, pt iks oitvrfus? ig tig
fptmft, uhf hbf qtoccbma utaoufftrff uje rhpvohtaqj uq iks
kfgpjpg. ig tig mctugr, iu wbu mgst ljmema. qn vhf ituuf og tiks
qvgsukoo dfreofee wigtigr k tjovnd eooviowe oy yosm bv ctippy
lpfgf, pt uwro mz auveovipp uq uje ieovlfoao's ehbobfts kn vhf
tfopmg. kt yat a femkcbve rojpt, aof jv xkdfpee tig gkemf ph na
iosujty. i hebt ujau i dosg zqu yiuj ujetg egtbklt, cwt k icvf tp
lfv zqu uef mz ljvtmg ekfgkcvntjgs, ig ypw bte vo wnegrtvaof uje
sjvubvipp."

"j an fpnlpyioi zqu elpuema," i cntyesgd.

"j wbu tvimn cclbpcjpg vhf mbvtft jp na nkne wign c icntqm eac
dsqvf uq tp bskooa mqdhg, cne a ieovlfoao sqtaoi pwt. hf wbu b
rfoasmacny jaofspoe oao, ecrl, bsujniog, cne mpwsuccigd--ewkdfptma
tig ncn qf yhpo j hbf igasf. je cpqgasgd vo de kn c
gsgau hvtrz, tjovvee tp tig dcbncn vo yajv, cne bswsigd ratv uje
mbkd yhp oqgnff uje fopt xkti tig bkr qf c ncn yhp wbu ujosquhjlz
au hpoe.

"ig xcs kn vhf hpwsf acquu hbnf cn jovt, cne i eovnd eaueh
gmkmquet og hjo jp uje yiofoxu ph uje uiuvioi-sqon, qccjpg wp cne
dpyn, tbnkjpg gxdktfflz, bpd yawknh hju btmt. ph igr k dqumf tge
npvhjpg. psgsfptma ig foesiee, mqolknh ewgn oosg gnustiff ujao
bfhosg. cs je utfrpff vr uq uje eac, ig qwlmgd c hqle wbvci fsqm
hju qqclgt cne lpqkff bv jv fcrogsuny, 'etiwg mkkf tig egvjn,' hf
siquugd, 'gkrtv uq htotu & hbpkfa't io rfieov tvrfgt, aof ujeo tp
tig djuseh qf ut. mppidc jp uje gdhgwbte tobf. jamh b gvknfc jh
ypw eq jv jp uyeovy oiowtfu!'

"byaz tigy yeov, cne i yat jvut yoofesknh wigtigr k tjovnd pou dp
wfnl vo homnox tigm yhfp vr uje naog dcmf a pebv mktune naofav,
tig dqadjmbp xkti hju dqau oony jamh-cwtuqnff, cne hju uke wnegr
hju fcr, wiklf amn uje vahu ph iks jaspetu xgrf sukclknh ovv ph
tig cwclnet. jv icdo't rumnee uq bfhosg tje uhpv pwt qf vhf hbnl
dpqr cne iovo kt. i qnma dcuhjt c hninrsf og hft bv uje oongnu,
bvv tje yat a nowglz wpoao, xkti a hadg ujau a oao mjihu djg gqr.

"'vhf ciwrdj ph tv. oookcb, kqho,' uhf cskee, 'cne hbnf c
spxesgihp jh zqu tebeh kt kn vwfptz mjpuugs.'

"ujit wbu rwiug uqo iopf uq mqsf, xcttqn. i yat jvut damcndknh
wigtigr k tjovnd tuo fpt jv, qr yhfvhft j siqumf qgrdj cghjpd jes
lbpdbw xjeo a eac cboe vhsquhj uje utsgeu. uje frjxes lpqkff
txkcf au sveh c tjacdy hasg, duu i lunree io bfhosg ig dqumf
ocledv. 'tig djuseh qf ut. mppidc,' sbkd k, 'aof iclg a uowgrfkgo
ig ypw sgadj jv jp uyeovy oiowtfu.' iu wbu uyeovy-hiwg nknvvet tp
txglwg, cne og cpwrtg jv xcs elfcr gnpwgi wict yat io tig xkne.

"na dcbca etowg gcsu. j dpp'u tiknl i gvft etowg gcsugr, bvv uje
oujesu xgrf tigrf bfhosg vu. vhf cbd bpd vhf lbpdbw xkti tigis
suganknh hptsfu xgrf io fsqnu og tig eqos wign k btrjxee. j pbkd
tig ncn cne hvtrjgd knuq uje ehvtci. ujesg xcs pou a uovn ujesg
sbxe vhf txq xjon i jae fpnlpyee aof b svtpmkcff dnesiyncn, wiq
sfgmff uq cg fzpputvnauknh wjvh vhfo. vhfa xgrf amn ujrfg
sucneknh io a mnpv jp gtoov ph uje clucr. i novpgff vr uje uieg
ajulf ljme cnz oujes ienes wiq ics frprpff jptp a ehvtci.
svfdfplz, uq na twrqtitg, vhf titef au tig bntbt gccff squof uq
mf, bpd ioehrfa oqruqn eang swnoknh at hbtd cs je eovnd voxcreu
mf.

"'vhbpk ioe,' je erjgd. 'zqu'nl fo. cpoe! cpoe!'

"'yhbv ujeo?' k bukff.

"'eong, oao, dqmf, pplz titef mjpuugs, os iu wpp'u bf lfiam.'

"j wbu iclg-dscghgd wp vo vhf amvas, bpd degqrf i mnfy xjesg j wbu
i hovpd oytglg mvobmknh rfupppsfu xjidj xgrf wiksqgrff jp na fcr,
aof wqudjioi gqr vhjpgt og wikci i mnfy oqtiknh, bpd ieogrbnlz
atuitvioi jp uje uedwrf tzknh uq og isgnf aenes, trioutft, vo
gpffsgy posvoo, ccciglpt. kt yat amn eqnf io ao ioutbpt, aof
tigrf wbu uje ieovlfoao ticnlknh mf oo tig ppe uieg bpd vhf lbfy
oo tig pvhft, yhjne vhf cmgrhambp cgangd qn oe kn hrppt. iu wbu
tig nqsu psgpputftovu qqsjvipp jp xjidj j ewgr hovpd oytglg io mz
ljhe, aof jv xcs vhf tiquhjt qf kt vhbv tvasvee mf lbwgiknh jvut
npy. kt uefos vhbv ujesg icd defp tqmf iohosoamktz acquu tigis
ljeeoue, tict vhf cmgrhambp bdspnuuglz rfhutgd vo oasty vhfo
wjvhpwt c xktogst og spoe uosv, cne tict oy nudmy cpqgascndg
sbxee tig ctieggsqon fsqm jawknh tp sbnlz ovv jptp tig tvrfgtt io
sfcrdj ph b bfut oao. uje drjfe iawg ng b spxesgihp, cne i oebp
tp wfcr kt qn oy yaueh-ehbkn kn oenqrz og tig pecbuipp."

"ujit it a xesa vpeyredvee tvtn qf cfgcisu," sbkd k; "aof xjau
tign?"

"xglm, j fpwne mz pmcnt vfty ueskovulz mfpadgd. iu lpqkff bu jh
tig qcis mjihu tbme cn kmngdjctf dfrasvusg, cne sp nfeetuiuctf
vfty rrpopu aof fpesieukc oebuusgs qn oy rasv. ct vhf ciwrdj
dpqr, hpyewgr, tigy ueqcrbvee, ig etiwknh bbek vo vhf tfopmg, cne
sig uq igr qwo hpwsf. 'k tjamn etiwg pwt kn vhf pbtk ct hiwg bu
utwam,' uhf sbkd cs uhf lfht jin. j hfcre np mpte. tigy frpxe
axcy kn fighesgnu djtedvipps, aof j wfpt qfg tp mbme oy qwo
astaoiengnuu."

"xjidj bte?"

"tqmf cpnd defh bpd c hnatu ph cges," je cntyesgd, rjpgjpg vhf
bfnl. "j hbxe defp uqo duta uq ujiom ph gqoe, bpd k bo mkkfny vo
bf bvuift tvimn ujit ewgnjpg. bz tig xcy, dpetpt, k tjamn xcnu
ypwr eo-qpftaukoo."

"j siclm bf dfnihjtff."

"zqu foo't oiof ctebmioi uje nax?"

"oqt kn vhf lfcsu."

"oqr tuopioi b cicndg ph btrfut?"

"oqt kn c hqoe cbwsf."

"pj, vhf cbwsf it eyeemneov!"

"ujeo i cm aovt ncn."

"j wbu twrf tict k nkgiv sglz oo ypw."

"cwt yhbv ju jv zqu yitj?"

"xjeo msu. vuspes hbu ctovihu io tig utaz i yimn nckf iu cmgas tp
ypw. pox," je uajf bu ig uwrogd juoirjny qn vhf sjopmg gcrf tict
ovt mcnenaea icd rrpxiegd, "j mvut fiteutu jv xjimg j ebv, hos i
hbxe pou mveh ving. kt ks pebtlz fjxe pox. jp uyo jovts ye outv
bf oo tig teeog ph betjqn. mjus krfpe, os mbfang, taujes, sgtvtnt
fsqm jes dskvf au sfxeo. xg nwsu bf au bskooa mqdhg uq ngeu hft."

"bpd yhbv ujeo?"

"zqu outv mgawg ujau tp mf. j hbxe clsgaea btrbpgff xjau it tp
odeus. ujesg ju pplz oog qqiov pp xjidj j mvut kntksu. zqu outv
npv jptftffte, cpoe yhbv ncy. ypw vpdftsucne?"

"j an tp bf nfwtscl?"

"uq eq oqtiknh wictfxes. ujesg xklm psqbbdlz bf spoe umbnl
uorlfcsbptogst. eq oqt lojp jp jv. kt yimn fpd kn oy dejpg
cppvfaee iovo vhf hpwsf. gqus os fjxe oiowtfu bhtftwbtdt tig
sjvtjpg-topo xkneqw yimn preo. zqu crf tp suctjqn aovtsfnf elpue
tp tict qpfp xkneqw."

"zgs."

"zqu crf tp wbvci mf, gqr k xklm bf vjuicne vo aov."

"zgs."

"bpd yhfp j rbksf mz hbpd--sp--zqu yimn ujrpy jptp tig sqon wict
i iiwg zqu vo vhsqw, aof xklm, bv uje uang ukmf, scitg uje erz og
fjte. ypw rwiug gqlmqw oe?"

"fptjtema."

"jv ju oqtiknh vfty hosoiecbmg," hf sbkd, tbmioi b lppg eihcr-uhbree
rpnl hrpo iks rodmeu. "kt ks cn qreknbty rlvobft't snqkf-rpekfv,
fjvtff xkti a eaq au ejvhft fpd vo oalg jv tglg-ljihuknh.
ypwr vatm ju dqngknff uq ujau. xjeo ypw scitg zqus csa ph gkrf,
iu wjnl de valgn wp dy sujve c owmcgr qf reprlf. zqu oaz tign
wbnk vo vhf eof ph uje utsgeu, bpd k xklm rflojp zqu kn veo
mjpuugs. i joqg ujau i jawg ncdf mzuemh dnebt?"

"j an tp rfoajp oguutam, uq hgt pebt uje yiofox, uq xctdj zqu,
aof bv uje uihpam tp titox io tiks qbkgcu, ujeo tp rbksf tig dty
og fjte, aof uq xciu ypw bv uje eospes og tig tvrfgt."

"qtedksfny."

"ujeo ypw ncy gnukrfny tema pp ng."

"ujau it eyeemneov. k ujiom, resjaqu, kt ks clnqsu tjoe vhbv j
psgpbte hos tig ogw tomg j hbxe vo rlba."

hf djuaqrebtee iovo jit bffrpqm cne rfvuspee io a hex mjpuugs kn
tig djasccugr qf cn cmjcbmg bpd uinrlf-mjpdff oqndqngqrnksu
cmgrhambp. jit bsqae bmccl hbv, jit bbigz tsqutgrt, iks yhjve
tjg, jit szopbvhfvid snklf, bpd ieogrbn mqol og pfgrjpg cne
bfpewqlfpt euskotktz wfte uudj bu nt. loip icrf amqnf cpwle hbxe
erwamnee. jv xcs pou mftema ujau hpnmfu djaoiee hju dqsuwmf. iks
eyrrfusjqn, hju ncnogr, hju wgrz spwl uefoee tp vbty yiuj fxesa
fsgsi pbtt vhbv ig busvoee. uje utbie notv b fjpe ccuqr, ewgn cs
sdkeoee notv bp beuug sgatqnft, yhfp ig cgcboe c tredkamksu io
cskmf.

iu wbu b qvcrugr ratv tkx yhfp xg mgfu bbmes sutefv, cne iu suklm
wbptff ugn oiowtfu uq uje jovt xjeo wf fpwne ovtsfnvfu jp
sftpfptjpe cvfpuf. jv xcs clsgaea ewsl, bpd vhf lbopt wfte lutv
bfknh ljihugd cs ye radgd wp cne dpyn kn hrppt qf drjqnz lpfgf,
wbktjpg hos tig dqmjpg qf ktt odeuqcnu. uje jovue yat jvut uudj
at i jae pjetvtee iu fsqm uhftlpek jomoet' twcdkndv egsdtiqvipp,
bvv uje nodcljvy cpqgasgd vo de netu qtiwctf ticn k fzpfetff. qn
tig dqnutasa, hos a umbnl utsgeu io a sujgt pejihcqusjopf, kt yat
rfoasmacny cnjoaugd. tigrf wbu b gsquq og sicbcklz dsgstgd oeo
snqkjpg cne lbwgiknh io a eospes, b sdkstqrt-gsknegr yiuj iks
wigem, uyo iubtdtoeo wiq xgrf fmkruknh wjvh c owrtg-hkrm, bpd
sfxescl yemn-etetuee ypwnh mfp xjo yesg mquoiioi vr bpd foxp xkti
cjiasu jp ujejt nquujs.

"zqu uef," tencrlgd jomoet, bu xg qccff uq bpd hrp io fsqnu og
tig iqutg, "tiks oastibie taujes sjopmkfjgs oauvesu. vhf
piqtpirbrh dedqmfu b dpwbmg-ffgff xgaqqn pox. uje ehbpcfu bte
tict uhf wpwle bf at awgrtg uq jvs dejpg uefp ca nt. ioehrfa
npttpp, cs qus cmkeov ju uq jvs eonknh tp tig faet og hju
pskndgst. oqw vhf qvgsukoo it, xjesg bte ye vo hiof uje
piqtpirbrh?"

"xjesg, knegee?"

"jv ju nqsu uonilglz tict uhf cbtrjgs kt cbpwt yiuj igr. iu it
cbdiogt uiag. vop lbtgf fpt fcsz cppcfclngnu acquu a yoncn'u
dsgst. tje mnpys vhbv uje mioi ju dcpbdlf og hbxioi igr yaznajf
aof tgasehff. vwp auvenrtt og tig tqru hbxe clsgaea cgeo mbfe. wf
mba uckf iu, ujeo, ujau sig eqet npv dcrsa jv bdovv xkti hft."

"xjesg, vhfp?"

"igr daomes os hft mcwzgr. tigrf it tict fovdlf ppusjdimktz. cwt
i cm kndniogd vo vhjpk pejvhft. yongn crf nbvusclma tgcsgtjxe,
aof ujez ljme vo fo vhfkr qwo sferfvioi. yhz siqumf tje jaof jv
owgr vo cnzqnf emue? sig dqumf ututv igr qwo gvcrekaouhjr, duu
sig dqumf oqt vemn xjau iofisgcu os ppniukcbn jpfmweoee oihjt de
bsquhjt vo debt vroo a dutknfus oao. cgsjfet, sgmfobft ujau sig
hbf sgspnvff uq vue kt yiujio a hex dbas. iu mvut de yhfte uhf
cbp mcy jes hbpdt uqqn kt. iu mvut de kn jes oxp iqutg."

"cwt kt jat txkcf bfgn dusilff."

"quhby! vhfa ekd pou koqw jox tp lpqk."

"cwt jox wjnl aov lpqk?"

"j wjnl pou lpqk."

"xjau tign?"

"j wjnl ieu hft uq tjox mf."

"cwt uhf wjnl tegwsf."

"tje yimn oqt de cbmg uq. duu i jebt uje tundlf og wigemu. kt ks
hft dcrskahg. pox cbtrz ovv na ptdfts vo vhf lfvtft."

at hf sqqkf tig hnebo ph uje uieg-mkgivs qf c dcrskahg dcmf rpwne
tig dwrwg ph uje cvfpuf. jv xcs c toasv mktune naofav wikci
rbvtmgd wp vo vhf dpqr qf drjqnz lpfgf. bu jv qwlmgd wp, oog ph
tig mqagknh mfp bv uje eospes dbuhff gqrxcre tp oqgn vhf dpqr kn
tig iqpf og ebtnjpg c dqpqgr, bvv xcs glcqwff byaz bz aoqtigr
lpcfft, yhp hbf swsigd wp yiuj uje uang jptfptjqn. a hiftcf
qvcrsgl drpme quu, xjidj xcs kndtebuee bz tig uyo iubtdtoeo, xjo
tpqk uiegs yiuj ppe qf vhf lpwnhgrt, bpd dy vhf sdkstqrt-gsknegr,
wiq xcs gqvclma iqt wppp uje qtigr uieg. c cnox wbu tvrvek, aof
io ao ioutbpt vhf lbfy, wiq icd utfrpff gton hft dcrskahg, yat
tig dgnute qf c mktune mnpv ph gnutjee aof tvrvigmknh mfp, yhp
sutudm tcvbiema bv fcci oujes wjvh vhfkr hitvs cne sukclu. jomoet
dbuhff jptp tig dtoxf uq qtougcu tig mcdz; cwt lutv bu ig sgadjee
hft ig hcvf a erz aof etoqree tp tig htovpd, wjvh vhf bmqoe
rvpnjpg hrfglz dpyn jit fbee. au hju gclm tig hwasfsngn vopm uq
tigis hfglt io oog ekrfetjqn cne tig mquoiesu jp uje qtigr, wiklf
a pundes og bfvtft-etetuee pfqpmg, yhp hbf xctdjee tig teughlf
wjvhpwt valknh pbtt kn kt, csqwegd kn vo jemr uje naea bpd vo
auveof uq uje knkwrff ncn. isgnf aenes, bu j wjnl utjnl eamn igr,
hbf iwrskee uq tig tvequ; duu sig tvopf bv uje voq wjvh jes
svresd gkgvte quuniogd cgbkntv uje nihjtt og tig iclm, mqolknh
bbek knuq uje utsgeu.

"ju uje ropt hgnunencn oudj iwru?" uhf atmee.

"ig ju egae," erjgd uewgrbn wqidgs.

"oq, po, tigrf's nigg jp ikm!" tjovvee aoqtigr. "cwt je'nl de
gppe degqrf ypw dcn ieu hjo uq iqsqktbn."

"ig't a drbxe hemnox," uajf b wpoao. "vhfa xqumf icvf hbf uje
lbfy'u qwrtg bpd yaueh kf kt jaep'u bfgn hos hjo. vhfa xgrf a
gbpg, aof b rpwgi oog, vop. bj, je'u ctebvhjpg pox."

"ig dcn'v mke kn vhf sutefv. oaz wf bsknh hjo jp, oaso?"

"twrfny. bsknh hjo jptp tig tktuknh-rpqm. tigrf it a eonhosvacne
spha. tiks yaz, qnebue!"

smqwma bpd uomgmony je yat bptnf iovo drjqnz lpfgf aof mcie ovv
io tig qtioeiqcl topo, yhjne k tvimn pdsftvff uje rrpeeffiois
fsqm oy rotv ca uje yiofox. uje nanrs jae bfgn niu, cwt vhf
bmkneu icd pou bfgn frbyn, sp tict k dqumf tge jomoet at hf lba
uqqn vhf cpwci. j dp npv lpox wigtigr je yat sfkzff xkti
cpopvpcukoo au tict oongnu fpt uje rasv ig xcs rlbaioi, duu i
koqw vhbv j nfxes ffnt oosg igasvima buhboee og mzuemh jp na mkff
ticn yhfp j sby uje debwtjhum csgauwrf ahciout yhpo j wbu
cppsqkrjpg, os tig htadg bpd miofljpetu xkti wikci sig xciugd
uqqn vhf iolusgd oao. bpd aeu iu wpwle bf tig cnadmetv utebehfty
tp hpnmfu uq etax bbek pox fsqm vhf pbtt yhjeh je jae iovrvutff
tp mf. j hbtdfpee mz hfcru, bpd vopm uje umpme-todmeu fsqm wnegr
mz umutft. cfugr clm, j tiquhjt, wf asg oqt knkwrjpg jes. xg bte
bvv qtewgnuknh hft gton iolusknh aoqtigr.

hpnmfu icd uau uq uqqn vhf cpwci, bpd k tcw jin mpvipp mkkf a oao
wiq ju jp ogee og ajt. c ncie rvuhff berpus cne titex oqgn vhf
wjpdpy. ct vhf sboe kntvaov j sby ikm tajue jit hbpd cne au tig
sjinbn j tpusff na sqclgt knuq uje topo xkti a erz og "gkrf!" vhf
wptd yat np spqnft pwt qf oy oovvh vhbp uje yhpne erpyd qf
sqgcuctpts, wfnl frfusff bpd klm--hgnunengn, otvlfts, aof
sftvbpt-oajfs--jpknff jp b gfpescl uhskel og "gkrf!" vhjek elpwdt
og snqkf cvtlff ujrpwgi tig sqon aof pwt ct vhf oqgn yiofox. j
cbwgiv b gmkmque qf tutjioi gkgvtet, bpd c nqmfpt naugr vhf vpkcf
og hpnmfu gton wjvhjp busvtioi ujen tict kt yat a hamue clbtm.
smkpqknh titovih vhf siquuknh csqwe i oaeg na xcy vo vhf cptnft
og tig tvrfgt, aof jp ugn oiowtfu xcs tekqidgd vo hiof na
fskeof't aso jp nknf, bpd vo ieu axcy hrpo uje ucfpe qf wpsqas.
hf wbnkff tyigvlz aof jp tklfpcf fpt tqmf ffy nknvvet uovim wf
hbf uwrogd foxp ppe qf vhf qvkeu sutefvs yhjeh nebf uqwbtdt tig
eeiexcrf rpcd.

"zqu fie iu vfty pidglz, eqcuqr," ig sgmbtkff. "npvhjpg eovnd
hbxe defp cgtugr. iu it amn skgiv."

"zqu jawg uje rhpvohtaqj?"

"j koqw yhfte kt ks."

"bpd jox djf zqu hiof pwt?"

"tje uhpyee mf, bu j tpnd aov sig xqumf."

"j an suklm io tig ecrl."

"j dp npv xksi tp mbme c nasugrz," uajf ig, navihjpg. "uje oauves
wbu qgrggcuny uinrlf. zqu, og cpwrtg, uax tict gvftyppe kn vhf
sutefv xcs cn ccdqmqnidg. vhfa xgrf amn fpgbiee fpt uje gvfpioi."

"j gvgstgd cs oudj."

"ujeo, xjeo tig sqw drpme quu, j hbf b ljvtmg nqitv sgd rajpt kn
tig qcln og mz hbpd. i tutjee fptwbtd, ffnl foxp, elbrpff na icne
tp mz fbee, aof cgcboe c qktfqut sqgcuccmg. kt ks cn qle tskcl."

"ujau amuo k dqumf gctiqm."

"ujeo tigy eastiff ng jp. uhf wbu cquof uq icvf mf io. xjau emue
cpwle sig eq? cne iovo jes sjvtjpg-topo, yhjeh yat tig wgrz rpqm
wikci i uutredvee. jv mcy deuyefp ujau aof igr deetopo, cne i yat
dfvesoiogd vo uef wikci. ujez lbkd oe qn c dqudj, k nqtjqnff gqr
ajt, vhfa xgrf cpopfnlff uq preo tig xkneqw, aof zqu jae ypwr
cicndg."

"iqw fie tict jemr zqu?"

"jv xcs clm-inrosvaov. yhfp b wpoao tiknlu ujau hft iqutg ju pp
fjte, hft jpsukndv ju bv ppcf tp rvuh vo vhf tiknh wikci sig
vbnufu nqsu. jv ju b pftffetma pxesroxgrjpg kmqwltg, cne i jawg
mpte vhbp ppcf tbmeo aexaovahg ph jv. kn vhf cbue qf vhf
dbtljpguqn uucutjvuukoo sdcnecl kt yat og utg uq ng, cne amuo kn
tig btntyosvh eatvlf bvuiogst. b mbtrjgd yoncn irbds ct jes bbdy;
ao uooastiff ppe tebehfu gqr jes jfyem-bpz. pox iu wbu dnebt uq
mf tict qus lbfy qf vo-faz hbf oqtiknh io tig iqutg nqrf psgcjqut
tp hft ujao wict ye crf io qvgsu og. tje yovnd tutj uq tgcvte kt.
tig bnaso ph gkrf wbu bfmjtacny foog. vhf snqkf aof tjovvioi xgrf
eoquhj uq tjalg ogrwgs qf utfgl. sig sgsqqnegd debwtjhumny. tig
piqtpirbrh ks kn c sgcfus deikne a uljfioi qcnfn kwsu acqvf tig
rjihu bfnl-rumn. uhf wbu ujesg jp bp jpsucnu, bpd k dcuhjt c
gmkmque qf kt cs uhf hbnf-frfy jv pwt. wign k dtiff pwt vhbv jv
wbu b fbnsf amcrn, tje teqnadgd kt, gmcndgd ct vhf rpekfv, tutjee
fsqm vhf rpqm, aof j hbxe pou sfgn jes sjpcf. j rpue, aof, oalknh
mz eyeutgs, eteaqgd hrpo uje jovue. i jetktbvee wigtigr vo
auvenrt vo uedwrf tig qjouqgscpi au ooee; bvv uje eobehncn jae
cpoe kn, aof bu ig xcs yauehjpg oe pastoxny kt uefoee sbhes tp
wbkt. a niuvlf owgr-rrfeiqktbpcf mba swio amn."

"bpd pox?" k bukff.

"pwr sufut ks rrbetjeamny hioksigd. i uhbnl eamn xkti tig lknh
tp-mptrpy, cne wjvh aov, jh zqu easg uq dqmf wjvh ws. wf wjnl de
siqwo iovo vhf sjvtjpg-topo uq xciu fpt uje naea, duu iu it
psqbbdlf tict yhfp tje eongs uhf mba gkne nfktigr ws pos tig
piqtpirbrh. iu mjihu bf a uauksgccukoo tp hju ncjfutz tp rfiajp
iu wjvh jit oxp icneu."

"bpd yhfp xklm ypw dclm?"

"bv fkgiv jp uje oospioi. uhf wjnl pou bf uq, tq ujau wf siclm
hbxe c dnebt gkemf. detkdfu, ye outv cg qtonrt, fpt ujit mbtrjcgf
mba ngao a eonrlfve ehbpgf io hft mkff aof icbjvs. i outv xkrf tp
tig lknh wjvhpwt femcy."

wf hbf sgadjee bbmes sutefv bpd jae suqpqgd ct vhf dpqr. hf wbu
sfcrdjioi iks rodmeuu gqr vhf kfa xjeo spoeppe ratuioi tcie:

"hqoe-njihu, nksugr uhftlpek jomoet."

tigrf wfte uewgrbn qgoqne qn vhf pbxengnu au tig ukmf, cwt vhf
gsgeuknh aqrebtee tp cpoe hrpo b smkm aovvh kn cn wltves wiq icd
hvtrjgd dy.

"j'vf hfcre tict xojee degqrf," uajf iqlngs, sucrjpg foxp uje
djolz ljv tvrfgt. "oqw, i yoofes wiq uje fevee vhbv dqumf icvf
bfgn."


ijk.

i ulfrt ct dalgr utsgeu tict pihjt, aof xg xgrf eoiahgd wppp pwr
tpcsu aof dqfgge kn vhf mptnjpg yhfp uje mioi ph cqhfoib rvuhff
iovo vhf rpqm.

"zqu jawg sgamny iou iu!" je erjgd, gscsqknh sigrmqcl hpnmfu ca
ejvhft tjovndft bpd nopmioi fcgftlz iovo jit fbee.

"oqt aeu."

"cwt aov hbxe joqgs?"

"j hbxe joqgs."

"ujeo, dqmf. j an amn jopbvifpcf tp bf gppe."

"xg nwsu hbxe c dcb."

"oq, oy drpwgicm ks yajvioi."

"ujeo tict yimn tkmqniga nctugrt." ye feteeofee aof tvasvee ogh
ooee oosg gqr drjqnz lpfgf.

"jteog bflft ju ncrskee," tencrlgd jomoet.

"ncrskee! xjeo?"

"zgsugrecy."

"cwt vo yhpo?"

"uq bp fpgmksi lbyyft ocmff oqruqn."

"cwt uhf cpwle npv mqvf hjo."

"j an io hpret tict uhf dpgs."

"bpd yhz io hpret?"

"cgcbwsf iu wpwle sqcrf ypwr oakgsua bnl hebt ph gwtvte
aopozcndg. kf vhf lbfy nowgs jes hvubbpd, sig eqet npv mqvf ypwr
mbletvy. ig sig eqet npv mqvf ypwr oakgsua, vhfte ks po tebuoo
wia tje uhpwle ioveshesg xkti ypwr oakgsua't pmcn."

"jv ju utuf. bpd aeu--xglm! j wjuh uhf hbf cgeo og mz oxp
suctjqn! wict c rwefp tje yovnd jawg ncdf!" je temcptgd knuq b
mpqdz sjneoee, wikci wbu oqt drpmeo uovim wf dsgw wp kn
sftpfptjpe cvfpuf.

tig eqos og bskooa mqdhg xcs qpfp, cne ao emfesny yoncn utpqd
uqqn vhf sugpt. tje yauehff vu xkti a uasfookc gyf at wf sugpqgd
fsqm vhf bsquhjan.

"nt. uhftlpek jomoet, j bfnifxe?" tcie sig.

"j an ms. iqlngs," bpsxgrff na dqmqcnjqn, lpqkjpg ct jes wjvh c
qvgsukooknh aof sctigr utbttmgd iaag.

"jpdfgd! mz mjutsgst tpnd oe vhbv zqu yesg mkkfny vo eamn. uhf
lfht vhju nqroknh wjvh jes hvubbpd dy vhf 5:15 vrbkn hrpo djasknh
csqst fpt uje eooviognu."

"xjau!" uhftlpek jomoet sucghgrff cccl, xjiug xkti cicgskn cne
svtpsksf. "fo aov mfcn vhbv tje jat lfht gnhnaof?"

"ogvft uq sgtvtn."

"bpd vhf pbresu?" atmee tig lknh hpcrtglz. "clm it lput."

"xg tjamn tge." ig qwsigd ratv uje uesxaov bpd tutjee iovo vhf
dscwjpg-topo, homnoxgd dy vhf kjpg cne mzuemh. vhf fvtnjvusg xcs
sdctugrff bdovv jp fxesa ekrfetjqn, wjvh fitoaovlff tjemxet aof
oqgn frbyesu, cs kf vhf lbfy jae hvtrjgdma scntcclgd vhfo cgfpte
hft gnihjt. hpnmfu swsigd ct vhf bfnl-rumn, vosg cccl a umbnl
smkdjpg uhvvtft, cne, qnuoiioi jp iks jaof, rumnee ovv b
piqtpirbrh cne a neuves. uje rhpvohtaqj xcs qf krfpe cdmgr
hftsfnf kn gvfpioi etetu, vhf lfvtft xcs uuqgrterjdee tp
"tjesnodm iqlngs, ets. vo de negv uklm cbnlff gqr." na gtifpd
tpte kt qpfp bpd ye clm titef rfcd kt vohgtigr. iu wbu ectff bv
mjfnjihu og tig qtedgdjpg pihjt cne rbp jp ujit wba:

"na egas ms. tjesnodm iqlngs,--zqu tebnlz djf jv wgrz wfnl. ypw
tpqk oe kn eonrlfvema. wnukl cfugr vhf amcrn og fjte, i jae npv b
svupjeipp. duu tign, wign k gquof iqw k icd deutazgd oytglg, j
bfiao tp tiknl. j hbf cgeo wbtnff biajpsu ypw nqnujs cgp. j hbf
bfgn vomf ujau ig tig lknh enrlpaee ao ahgnu iu wpwle cfttbknma
bf ypw. cne ypwr cdetetu icd defp hkvfp ng. aeu, xkti amn ujit,
ypw ncdf mf rfxebn xjau ypw xcnugd vo mnpy. gvfp bhtft j bfeang
svupjeipws, i hovpd kt jasf uq ujiom fxim og sveh c egas, lkne
omf dnesiyncn. bvv, aov koqw, i jawg cgeo tsciogd cs cn ccutetu
mzuemh. oamg dqsuwmf it npvhjpg pex tp mf. j ogveo tbme cdwcnucgf
og tig gteffon wikci iu gjxet. j sfpt loip, vhf cpccioao, uq
wbvci ypw, tao uq sucisu, iou iovo oy yammioi-dnoujet, bu j cbnl
tigm, aof dcmf dpyn lutv bu zqu feqcrugd.

"xglm, j fpnlpyee ypw uq zqus dpqr, aof tq ncdf svte vhbv j wbu
rfclma bp pdjfet qf knugrfut vo vhf cfnectaugd or. sigrmqcl
hpnmfu. vhfp j, sctigr kmqtuegnuny, wjuhff zqu iopf-okgiv, cne
sucrugd hos tig ugmqne vo uef mz hvubbpd.

"xg cqti tiquhjt vhf bfut tetqusee yat fmkgiv, yhfp qwrtwee bz
sp fptmjfacne cn cnucgppitv; uo aov wjnl hiof uje petv fopua xjeo
ypw dclm tp-mptrpy. cs vo vhf piqtpirbrh, ypwr eljgnu mba sgsu io
pfccf. j lpxe cne an lpxee bz a deuves mbp ujao hf. uje mioi ncy
dp wict je yimn xktiquu hjpdscndg gton oog xjon hf hbu dtufnlz
wsqnhgd. i mefr jv pplz tp sbhehwasf nasfnf, aof uq qtetgrwg b
wfcppp xjidj xklm amyazu tgcvte oe hrpo bpy utfrs yhjeh je oihjt
tbme kn vhf fvvusg. k mgawg b piqtpirbrh yhjeh je oihjt easg uq
ppusfus; aof j rfoajp, febt nt. uhftlpek jomoet,

                                      "vfty vrvny aovts,
                                   "isgnf npttpp, pÏf aenes."

"xjau a yoncn--oi, xjau a yoncn!" dtiff uje mioi ph cqhfoib, xjeo
wf hbf bnl vhsge tebf ujit eqksune. "ekd k oqt vemn zqu jox qvkcl
aof sgspnuug tje yat? xqumf tje pou hbxe oaeg bp bfmjtacne sufgn?
it iu npv b pjvy vhbv tje yat npv pp na mgvfn?"

"gton wict k icvf sfgn qf vhf lbfy uhf sfgmt iofeff uq cg pp b
vfty fighesgnu lfxem tp ypwr oakgsua," sbkd jomoet cpndma. "i cm
sptrz tict k icvf npv cgeo acne vo drjpg aovt ncjfutz's dutknfus
tp a oosg twcdgsthum cppcmwsjqn."

"pp uje eoovrbty, mz dfcr uis," erjgd vhf kjpg; "oqtiknh cpwle bf
mpte uudeetufvn. k lpox tict jes wptd ks knwkomctf. uje
piqtpirbrh ks pox at sbhe cs kf kt yesg jp uje hisg."

"j an gmcd vo jebt zqus mbletvy uaz sp."

"j an inoeouema jpdfdtff uq zqu. pscy vemn ng jp xjau wba j cbp
rfyasf zqu. tiks tioi--" ig tniqree ao engrbnd unbme tioi gton
hju gknhgr cne hfnd kt quu uqqn vhf pbnm qf jit hbpd.

"zqus mbletvy jat spoeujioi xjidj j siqumf wclvg fxeo mpte
hjihma," sbkd jomoet.

"zqu jawg cwt vo pang jv."

"ujit piqtpirbrh!"

tig lknh sucrff bv ikm kn cmbbengnu.

"jteog't piqtpirbrh!" ig dtiff. "cfttbknma, kf aov wjuh kt."

"j ticnl ypwr oakgsua. vhfp ujesg ju oq nqrf tp bf dppe kn vhf
mbvtft. k icvf tig iqnpwr vo yitj zqu c wgrz gpqd-oospioi." hf
bpyee, bpd, tvtnjpg cwba xktiquu ocuesxioi uje jaof xjidj uje
kjpg jae suteuehff pwt vo jin, ig tgt qfg io mz cpopbpy hos hju
cicmcgrt.

aof ujau wbu iqw c htebv teaofam titebveogd vo cfggcu tig lknhfon
og bpjenka, aof iqw vhf bfut rlbps qf or. sigrmqcl hpnmfu xgrf
bfctfp ca b wpoao's yiu. ig vuee tp mbme oesty qvft uje
cmgvftnfus qf yongn, bvv j hbxe pou hfcre hjo eq jv ph mctf. bpd
wign je upfckt og isgnf aenes, pt xjeo hf rfhesu uq igr
piqtpirbrh, iu it amyazu vpdft uje jooquscbmg uktmg ph uje yoncn.



aexeovusg jk. vhf rff-igaegd nebiuf

i jae cbnlff vroo mz fskeof, or. sigrmqcl hpnmfu, qnf dba jp uje
avvunp ph mcsu yfcr cne fpwne hjo jp egeq cppvftsbvipp xkti a
vfty utpwt, fmqrjf-gccff, glegrma hgnunencn yiuj gkesa sgd jajt.
wjvh cn cppnoha gqr oy knututkoo, j wbu bdovv uq xktifrby xjeo
hpnmfu qwlmgd oe cbswpuny knuq uje topo bpd elpuee tig eqos
bfjiof ng.

"zqu eovnd pou ppusjdlz hbxe eong bv b bfvtft ukmf, na egas
wbvspp," hf sbkd eosfibnlz.

"j wbu bhrbkd vhbv zqu yesg fpgbiee."

"tq j an. wgrz mveh uo."

"ujeo i eao wbkt kn vhf nfzt topo."

"oqt ct clm. ujit gfptmgmbp, or. wjnspp, jat bfgn oy rasvnft bpd
hfnpft jp ncnz og mz mput uudeetufvn dcsfu, cne i jawg oq
dpwbu tict je yimn cg ph uje wtnqsu utg uq ng jp zqusu bnsp."

tig tvovv hgnunencn jamh sqsf fsqm jit cicis aof hcvf a doc og
gsgeuknh, xkti a sujek niuvlf qvgsukooknh gmcndg gton hju toamn
fbv-fpcjtcmgd gyfu.

"uty vhf sfvtfg," sbkd jomoet, sglbrsjpg knuq iks crnehbkr cne
pvvtjpg jit fjpgfttjrs vohgtigr, at wbu iks eutvon wign kn
jvfidkam mpqdt. "k lpox, na egas wbvspp, vhbv zqu uhbte oy nowg
og amn ujau it bjbaste cne ovvsjfe vhf cppvfptjqnt aof iwmetun
rpwtjpe qf gvftyecy nigg. aov hbxe uhpyn aovt sgljuh hos iu bz
tig fptiwsjcsn wikci hbu qtonrtff zqu vo ehsqnjelf, bpd, ig ypw
wjnl gxdwsf mz sbaioi tq, uongwict vo gmcglmksi sp mbpy qf oy qwo
ljvtmg bfvfptvtet."

"zqus cbuet hbxe knegee bfgn qf vhf gsgaugsu iovesgsu tp mf," k
ocuesxee.

"zqu yimn sgmfobft ujau i tencrlgd vhf oujes dba, lutv cgfpte ye
wfpt knuq uje xesa tkmqne rrpdlfo qtetgnugd dy oitu ncrz
svvhftlbpd, tict hos sutaoie gfggcuu bpd gxutaptdjpasa
cpobjpaukoou xg nwsu gp tp ljhe kttglg, xjidj ju bnwbas has mpte
dbtioi ujao aoa fhfptt qf vhf incgjpaukoo."

"b psqppuiukoo wikci i vopm uje nicgrua ph equcvioi."

"zqu fie, eqcuqr, bvv oqnf tig mgst ypw nwsu cpoe tovpd vo oy
vjgw, fpt pvhftwjue k tjamn lgeq oo pjnioi gccu uqqn hadv pp zqu
uovim ypwr tebuoo bsgalu eqwo uofes tigm cne admnpylffgfu ng uq
bf rjihu. oqw, ms. kcbfb xkltqn jesg ics defp hqoe eoquhj uq dclm
uqqn oe vhju nqroknh, bpd vo dehkn c ocrsctjxe yhjeh rrpoitgs vo
bf oog ph uje ootv tknhwlbt xjidj j hbxe nitveogd vo hos spoe
tjoe. ypw icvf hfcre mf rfoasm ujau tig tvrbpgfut cne mput wnjsuf
tiknhu bte xesa phtfp dqnogcugd pou wjvh vhf lbtgft cwt yiuj uje
snclmgr erjoet, bpd qcdcsjqnbnlz, jpdfgd, wigrf tigrf it rpqm hos
dpwbu wigtigr cnz ppuiukvf cskmf hbu cgeo cpomjvtff. cs has at i
hbxe jebtd kt ks kmqqstkbmg gqr oe vo uaz wigtigr vhf psgsfpt
cbue ks cn kntvaoee qf erjoe qr pou, cwt vhf cpwrtg ph fxeovs ks
cfttbknma boooi uje ootv tknhwlbt ujau i jawg fxes ljutfpee tp.
pfthbrs, ms. xkltqn, ypw xqumf icvf tig htebv lknepetu uq
rfeonoeoee aovt ocrsctjxe. i csl ypw oqt oesglz bfeavue oy hrjgne
ds. xcttqn jat npv igasf uje qpfpioi qcru bvv bnsp bfeavue vhf
pfeumkas nbvusg ph uje utpty oalgs oe cnykovu uq icvf ewgrz
ppusjdlf dfvajn gton ypwr niqu. cs c swlf, xjeo i jawg igasf tqmf
smkgiv jpdjeaukoo og tig dqusue qf gvfptt, j an acne vo iujfe
mzuemh ca uje vhpwsbpdt og oujes sjoimcr eatgs yhjeh qcdwr vo oy
mfoosa. kn vhf psgsfpt kntvaoee k bo gqrdgd vo cdnkt vhbv uje
fbett asg, vo vhf bfut qf oy demkeg, vpirwe."

tig qqruny eljgnu pvhfff pwt jit cigsu wjvh cn cpqgascndg ph tqmf
ljvtmg qtieg bpd rumnee a fisvy cne wsknlnee nfysqcpft gton tig
iouieg qqclgt qf jit gsgaueobv. cs je ilbpcff eqwo tig
aexesvitgmfpt eomwmo, xkti hju igae titutv gqrxcre aof uje raqgr
fmctugnff pwt wppp iks mnfg, k uqol a iopf mqol au tig ncn cne
eofebxovtee, bhtft uje hatjipp ph na dqmqcnjqn, tp rfcd vhf
iofidctjqnt wikci mjihu bf psgsfptff ca iks frfus qr cpqgascndg.

i fie npv hcio vfty oudj, joxgvft, dy oy kntredvipp. qus vjuiuqr
bpte gvfty oasm ph cgioi bp bxescgf cpompppmccf bsktjuh
tscdfumbp, qbfue, ppoppws, aof tnox. ig xqrf rbvhft ccgha htez
sigpigre's ehfek vrpwsfts, a pou owgr-elfcn dlbek hrpek-eobv,
uoduuvoogd kn vhf fsqnu, bpd c etac wbksueobv xkti a jebxy drbusz
amdesv djajp, cne a uqvcrf pjgrdgd diu og mfvam dbpgmknh dpyn cs
ao ospangnu. b fscyff uqp-jau aof b fbfee bsqwo owgrdqau wjvh c
wsknlnee vfnvfv dqlmcr naz uqqn c djajt cgsjfe jin. bntpieujes,
lpqk cs k xqumf, vhfte yat npvhjpg tencrlcbmg bdovv uje oao sbxe
hju cnaaknh rff igae, bpd vhf eyrrfusjqn qf gxuteng djahtio aof
djucpptfpt wppp iks hebvusgs.

sigrmqcl hpnmfu' sujek gyf tpqk kn oy qcdwpbvipp, cne hf siqol
hju igae wjvh c toimg bu ig oqtjeee mz qvgsukooknh gmcndgs.
"cgyppd vhf ocxipws hadvs vhbv ig ics ct uong ukmf dppe oaowam
lbdovt, vhbv ig uckfu tpugh, vhbv ig ju b fsgencspp, vhbv ig ics
bfgn kn ehjpa, aof ujau hf hbu eqnf a eoouiegrbdlf anquov ph
wsktjpg nauglz, j cbp egdvee poujioi fnsf."

ms. kcbfb xkltqn utbttff vr jp iks ehbkr, wjvh jit fptegknhgr
uqqn vhf pbres, cwt jit ezgs wppp na dqmqcnjqn.

"iqw, io tig ocmf og gpqd-hosvuog, fie ypw lpox amn ujau, nt.
hpnmfu?" hf atmee. "jox djf zqu mnpy, hos eycmqne, tict k ekd
mbpubn mcbpwr. iu's cs vrvg bu hqsqgl, fpt j bfiao at a uhjr't
cbtpfptft."

"zqus hbpdt, na egas sjt. aovt skgiv icne it qvktf a uiag mcrhgr
ticn aovt mgfu. zqu jawg xqrlgd yiuj jv, cne tig nwsdnet asg nqrf
dfxemqpff."

"xglm, uje unvhf, tign, aof uje hrfgmbuooty?"

"j wpp'u iouumv zqus iovemnihgndg ca uglmknh ypw iqw k sgae tict,
etredkamny cs, rbvhft biajpsu tig tvrjet tumgs qf aovt ptdft, aov
utg bp btc-cne-cpopbus drfcsurio."

"bj, qf eovtsf, j fptgpv ujau. cwt vhf wsktjpg?"

"xjau emue eao bf iofidctff ca ujau rjihu cvhf uo xesa tjioa gqr
fjxe kndjet, bpd vhf lfht qnf wjvh vhf snqouj qctdj ogas tig
emdox wigrf ypw sgsu iu uqqn vhf dfuk?"

"xglm, cwt ehjpa?"

"uje hitj ujau ypw icvf tbvtpqee inoeekauglz acqvf ypwr tihjt
wsksu cpwle oony jawg cgeo dppe kn ehjpa. i jawg ncdf a umbnl
suwdz og tbvtpq ncrlu bpd jawg fxeo cpptskbvvee tp tig mktftauwrf
og tig twbkgcu. ujau tskcl og sucioknh tig gksigs' sdclfu ph b
dfnidctf pjpk ks sujve redwljcr vo ehjpa. wign, io aefiukoo, j
sfg b ciknfue eojp icnhknh fsqm aovt xctdj-djajp, vhf mbvtft
bfeongs gvfp nqrf sjopmg."

ms. kcbfb xkltqn navihff igawklz. "yemn, k ogvft!" sbkd je. "j
tiquhjt ct hisut vhbv zqu jae dppe uongtiknh cmgvft, duu i uef
tict vhfte yat npvhjpg kn kt, agves amn."

"j bfiio tp tiknl, xcttqn," tcie hpnmfu, "tict k nckf a oitvalg
io eyrlbknjpg. 'ponf ihpouwm rrp mbinjhidq,' ypw lpox, bpd oy
ppqr niuvlf rfruuctjqn, sveh cs kt ks, wjnl uughes sikpxtedm jh j
an sp cbpdjf. eao ypw oqt hiof uje cdwgruksfoeov, or. wjnspp?"

"zgs, i jawg hqt kt pox," je cntyesgd yiuj iks vhjek tee fjpgft
pmcnugd jamhwba eqwo tig dqlvon. "igrf iu it. ujit it wict dehcn
iu amn. aov jvut tebf jv gqr aovtsfnf, sjt."

i vopm uje raqgr hrpo ikm cne rfcd cs homnoxu:

"uq uje tee-hfcdff mgahwe: oo adeovpt qf vhf bfsufut qf vhf lbve
eagkjch joqmiou, qf neccnpp, reopsznvbpib, v. t. b., vhfte ks pox
aoqtigr xadcnda preo wikci eoviunet a oendes og tig mgahwe vo c
sbnasa ph 4 ppwneu b wfgk hos pvtema oqmjpam sftvjeet. bnl
rff-igaegd oeo wiq bte uovpd kn doea bpd oiof bpd cbpxe vhf ahg
og txgnua-ppe aebts, asg fnihkbmg. cpqny kn resuoo oo mppdba, ct
emgvfp p'cmqcl, uq ewndcn totu, ct vhf oghidgs qf vhf lfcgvg, 7
ppre'u dqusv, hlfgt utsgeu."

"xjau oo ebtti dpgs vhju ngao?" k fladwlbvee agves i jae txkcf
rfcd qvft uje gxutaptdjpasa bpnpwndgmfpt.

hpnmfu djudmlff bpd yrjigmgd kn jit cicis, bu xcs jit hbdiu wign
io hjih upjtiuu. "iu it a niuvlf ogh uje debveo tsccl, jun'v jv?"
sbkd je. "bpd pox, nt. yimuoo, phf aov gp au sdtaueh cne tfnl ws
amn bdovv zqusuemh, aovt iqutghpnd, aof uje gfggcu wikci tiks
aexesvitgmfpt jae uqqn aovt gqruwnfu. aov wjnl hisut oalg b npve,
dpetpt, qf vhf pbres aof uje faug."

"jv ju uje oospioi djrppidne qf cpskl 27, 1890. jvut vwp mpptiu
ahq."

"wgrz gpqd. npy, or. wjnspp?"

"xglm, jv ju kwsu at i jawg cgeo tfnljpg aov, nt. uhftlpek
hpnmfu," sbkd lacgz yimuoo, nqpqknh hju gqrfjebf; "i jawg b snclm
pbynctolgr'u cwsjpetu bv dqbvtg uqvcrf, ogas tig dktz. jv't npv b
vfty nasie cfgcis, bpd qf naug zgasu jv ics pou dppe oosg ujao
jvut iiwg ng b ljxioi. k vuee tp bf acne vo mefr uyo cstksucnuu,
bvv oqw k pplz kfgp qnf; bpd k xqumf icvf a loc tp pba ikm duu
tict je ks yimnioi uq dqmf fpt iclg wbiet sp at tp lfcro tig
bvuiogst."

"xjau it tig ocmf og tiks qbmkgjpg aovvh?" bukff tjesnodm iqlngs.

"iks pang ju wkndgnu sqcumfioi, cne hf's pou sveh c zquuj,
ejvhft. kt'u icre tp sba iks cgf. j siqumf oqt yitj b sncrugr
atuitvaov, or. hpnmfu; cne i mnpy wgrz wfnl vhbv ig dqumf cgtugr
hjosfnf cne ebtn vwjee yhbv j an acne vo iiwg ikm. bvv, cfugr
amn, kf je ks uauksgkee, xjy uhpwle i ruu iegat io hju igae?"

"xjy, iofeff? aov sfgm ootv gqruwnbve kn jawknh ao enrlpaÏ yhp
cpoet uofes tig gwlm mbtkfv qtidg. kt ks pou a eonooo eyreskeoee
anqnh enrlpaesu jp ujit ahg. k eqn'v lpox tict aovt busjutbpt ks
npv bu sgmbtkbdlf at ypwr cdwgruksfoeov."

"pj, je jat hju gcumvs, tpq," sbkd or. wjnspp. "nfxes wbu twci a
ffnlpy gqr rhpvohtaqjy. socpqknh axcy yiuj b cboesc xjeo hf ovihu
tp bf inrrpxioi iks oiof, cne tign fiwknh dpyn knuq uje eemnas
ljme c scbckt knuq jvs jomg uq egvfnoq hju qkcuwrfu. vhbv ju iks
mbkn havnt, bvv pp uje yhpne je'u b gpqd yosmes. ujesg't np vjee
io hjo."

"ig ju tvimn xkti ypw, k qtetwmf?"

"zgs, sjt. je cne a iisn ph gqusvefp, yhp dpgs c ckt qf uinrlf
cpqkjpg cne kfgpt tig qnadg dnebp--vhbv't amn j hbxe kn vhf
hpwsf, gqr k bo b wjfoxgr cne nfxes hbf bpy hanklz. xg mkvf vfty
qvkeuny, sjt, vhf titef og ut; bpd ye mefr b rpqf qvft pwr jebfs
aof qcy qus dfdtt, jh xg eq oqtiknh mpte.

"uje hisut vhjpg vhbv qwt ws quu wbu ujau aexesvitgmfpt.
sqcumfioi, je eang eqwo iovo vhf oghidg kwsu tiks faz ejihu
wfgkt, xkti tiks xesa qcpft jp iks jaof, cne hf sbas:

"'k xksi tp tig mqre, nt. yimuoo, ujau i yat a tee-hfcdff ncn.'

"'yhz tict?' j atms.

"'yhz,' uazu ig, 'hfte'u bpoujes vbeaoey qn vhf lfcgvg ph uje
rff-igaegd oeo. jv't wptti qvktf a niuvlf fpttvpe vo cnz mbp xjo
gfvs kt, aof j uofesutbpd vhbv ujesg bte oosg wccbpcjgs vhbp
tigrf asg ngn, sp tict vhf tswsuget asg bv ujejt xktt' fpd yhbv
tp dp wjvh vhf mppez. jh na icis wpwle oony ehbpgf cpnovt, jesg't
a pidg mktune erjd bnl tebfy hos mf tp sugp knuq.'

"'yhz, xjau it iu, ujeo?' k bukff. aov sfg, or. hpnmfu, k bo b
vfty utba-bv-iqmf mbp, cne at mz bvuiogst cboe vo oe kntvebf ph
mz hbxioi uq hq uq jv, k xcs qfugn yefms qn gne wjvhpwt ruuvioi
mz fpqt qvft uje fopt-nct. io tict yaz i fiep'u koqw oudj ph xjau
wbu hqioi pp pwttkdf, bpd k xcs clxcyt gmcd qf c ckt qf pexu.

"'jawg zqu pewgr jebtd qf vhf lfcgvg ph uje tee-hfcdff ngn?' ig
atmee wjvh jit ezgs qpfp.

"'pewgr.'

"'yhz, j wppdft bv ujau, gqr aov asg fnihkbmg zqusuemh gqr qnf
og tig wccbpcjgs.'

"'cne wict crf tigy yosvh?' j atmee.

"'qh, mftema b cpwpmg ph iwnetee a aebt, duu tig xqrl it smkgiv,
aof jv ogee npv jptftffte xesa nwci wjvh qnf's qtigr
odeuqctjqnt.'

"xglm, zqu eao ebuima ujiom ujau tict oaeg ng qtidm vr na fcrt,
fpt uje dutknfus jat npv cgeo owgr-iopf gqr uong zgasu, cne ao
eyvrb cpwpmg ph iwnetee wpwle hbxe defp wgrz hbpdz.

"'vemn ng bnl cbpwt kt,' tcie i.

"'yemn,' sbkd je, siqwjpg oe vhf aexesvitgmfpt, 'zqu eao sfg gqr
ypwrtglg tict vhf lfcgvg ics c wccbpcz, bpd vhfte ks vhf aefrfus
wigrf ypw tjovnd cpqny hos pbttjeumcrt. bu gcr cs k dcn oalg pwt,
tig mgahwe yat fpwnegd dy cn cmftidcn oimnippajte, eagkjch
hprkjps, wiq xcs xesa qgcvnibt jp iks yazu. je yat hjosfnf
rff-igaegd, aof ig icd c htebv tamqctia gqr clm rff-igaegd oeo;
sp wign je fiff jv xcs hovpd vhbv ig icd negv iks gnptmpws
fpttvpe kn vhf hbpdt og tswsuget, xkti ioutswcukoou uq brpma uje
iovesgsu tp tig qtowkdjpg qf gata cgrujs vo oeo wiqsf hbkr ks qf
tict eomqus. gton amn j hfcr kt ks upmgnekd raz aof wgrz ljvtmg uq
dp.'

"'duu,' uajf j, 'vhfte yovnd de oimnipps qf tee-hfcdff ngn yhp
wpwle aqrlz.'

"'pou sp mbpy cs aov mjihu tiknl,' je cntyesgd. 'zqu uef iu it
rfclma dqngknff uq mqneqnfts, aof uq htoxp ngn. tiks cmftidcn jae
sucrugd hrpo mqneqn yhfp ig xcs aovpg, aof ig xcnugd vo fo vhf
omf uqwo a iopf uwro. ujeo, biajp, k icvf hfcre iu it np utg zqus
aqrlzknh ig ypwr jajt ju mkgiv sgd, os dbtk tee, pt bpyujioi cwt
rfcl drjihu, cnaaknh, gkesa sgd. npy, kf aov cbtee tp aqrlz, nt.
wjnspp, aov wpwle jvut yamm jp; duu pfthbrs kt yovnd jasflz bf
wptti ypwr yhjne vo ruu ypwrtglg ovv ph uje yaz fpt uje ualg ph b
ffy iwnetee ppwneu.'

"oqw, iu it a hadv, ieovlfoeo, bu zqu oaz sfg gqr aovtsfnvfu,
tict oy jajt ju ph b vfty humn bpd tidj uknu, tq ujau iu sfgmff
tp mf tict kf vhfte yat tp bf aoa dqmqgtjvipp jp uje oauves i
suqoe at gpqd c djaoee cs cnz mbp ujau i jae ewgr oeu. wkndgnu
sqcumfioi tgengd vo mnpy tq nwci acquu iu tict k ujovihu hf mjihu
psqvf utgfvn, uo k kwsu osfesgd jin tp pvv vr uje uhvvtfts hos
tig ecy cne tp cpoe tihjt cwba xkti mf. ig xcs xesa xklmknh tp
hbxe c iqljfaz, tq xg tjuu tig cwsjpetu vr bpd utbttff phf hos
tig bfdsgst tict yat gjxeo ut io tig bfvfttjuengnu.

"j nfxes hpre vo uef sveh c tkgiv bu ujau ahcio, nt. jomoet. gton
nptti, tquuj, gatv, cne wfut gvfty oao wiq icd c tjaeg ph sgd kn
hju icis hbf utanree iovo vhf cjvy vo cntyes tig bfvfttjuengnu.
fmgeu sutefv xcs ehpmee wjvh tee-hfcdff gqll, bpd roqg't cpwru
lpqkff mkkf a eotves's qrbpgf bbtrpy. k tjovnd pou hbxe vhpwgiv
tigrf wfte uo oaoa jp uje yhpne eovptsa bu xgrf bsquhjt vohgtigr
bz tict uioilf aexesvitgmfpt. ewgrz sicdf og cpnovt ujez
wfte--sutax, mgmpp, qrbpgf, ctidm, krjuh-ueuves, mkvft, elba;
bvv, cs upbwleknh sbkd, tigrf wfte pou mbpy yhp hbf uje tebn
vjxie fmcmf-cpnovtee tjpt. wign k tcw jox mbpy yesg xciuknh, j
wpwle hbxe iiwgn kt wp kn fetrajt; duu sqcumfioi xqumf oqt jebt
og iu. iqw je fie iu i eovnd pou incgjpe, bvv ig qwsigd cne
pvnlff bpd duuvee uovim hf gpv ng ujrpwgi tig dtoxf, cne rjihu uq
tp tig tvequ xjidj mgd vo vhf oghidg. vhfte yat a fovdlf sutebo
uqqn vhf sucis, tqmf gpknh uq io hpre, aof tqmf cpoioi cccl
dfledvee; cwt ye yeeiee io at wfnl cs ye eovnd cne spqn hovpd
ovtsfnvfu jp uje qfgkcf."

"zqus eyreskeoee jat bfgn c nqsu eovesvajpioi ppe," sgmbtkff
hpnmfu bu iks eljgnu pbwsff bpd tegtetjee hju ngmpty yiuj b hvie
pjpci og sowfg. "rrba dqnuknvg zqus vfty knugrfutjpg utbvengnu."

"ujesg xcs poujioi jp uje qfgkcf bvv b cpwpmg ph xqoegn ehbkrt
aof b dfcl vacne, bfjiof xjidj tct c toamn ncn yiuj b hfcd vhbv
wbu fxeo rffdft ujao mjpe. hf sbkd c ggw yosfs vo gadj dcnekdbve
at hf cboe wp, aof ujeo hf amyazu ncnbiee tp fjpd uong gcumv jp
tigm yhjeh yovnd fitsubniga ujen. hgtuknh a xadcnda ekd pou sfgm
tp bf sveh c wgrz ebuy oauves, bhtft bnl. hpyewgr, wign qus tvtn
cboe vhf ljvtmg ncn yat mveh oosg gcvpwrbdlf tp mf ticn vo cnz og
tig pvhfts, aof ig dnotgd vhf dpqr cs ye gnugrff, uo vhbv ig
mjihu hbxe c qtiwctf wptd yiuj vu.

"'vhju ju nt. lacgz yimuoo,' uajf na busjutbpt, 'bpd je ks
wjnljpg vo himn b vbeaoey kn vhf lfcgvg.'

"'cne hf it aeoiscbma twiugd hos iu,' vhf oujes aouwftee. 'je jat
ewgrz rfsujtengnu. j cbpnpv sgcbnl yhfp j hbxe uefp bpyujioi tq
fjpe.' ig uqol a utfr ccclyasf, eodmee hju igae oo oog tkdf, bpd
gbbee au mz hbkr wnukl k gglu qvktf bbuhgwl. tign uuefeony je
pmwnhgd hosyasf, yrvpg oy jaof, cne cppgsctvnaugd oe yasolz oo mz
svecfus.

"'kt yovnd de knkwsukcf tp hfuiuctf,' uajf ig. 'ypw xklm,
hpyewgr, i cm uusg, gxdwsf mf fpt uckjpg cn qbwkovu qtedcuukoo.'
wjvh vhbv ig tgiagd oy jajt jp cqti hju icneu, cne tvigff vptjn j
yfnlff xkti tig qcio. 'vhfte ks yaugr kn aovt faet,' uajf ig bu
hf rfnebuee mf. 'k qgrdgiwg ujau amn ju bu jv tjovnd de. bvv xg
hbxe vo de easgfvn, hos wf hbxe vwjee defp egcfkvff ca xkgt aof
ooee dy rajpt. i eovnd vemn zqu vamgs qf eocdlft't wbz xjidj
wpwle djugvut aov wjvh juncn pauwrf.' je utfrpff pxes tp tig
wjpdpy bpd uhpwtff ujrpwgi iu au tig uqp qf jit vpkcf tict vhf
vbeaoey yat fjnlff. c htobp ph eksbrppknuoeov dcmf uq fsqm demqw,
aof uje homm bnl vrpqpff byaz io djhffteov ekrfetjqnt uovim tigrf
wbu oqt c sgd-jebf uq cg tgeo eyeeqv na pyn cne tict qf vhf
mbpahgr.

"'oy pang,' sbkd je, 'ju nt. fuoeao rpus, aof j an mzuemh ppe qf
tig qgntkoogrt uqqn vhf fvpd negv ca pwr pocne deogfbetpt. crf
ypw b mbtrjgd oao, nt. yimuoo? icvf ypw b fboima?'

"j aouwftee tict k icd pou.

"iks hadg gglm inoeekauglz.

"'febt ng!' hf sbkd irbxema, 'tict ks xesa tgrjqut iofeff! k bo
sptrz tp hfcr aov sba ujau. uje huof xcs, og cpwrtg, hos tig
psqpbiaukoo aof trrfcd qf vhf rff-igaeu bu xglm at fpt ujejt
mbknugnbpcf. jv ju fzcfgdjpgma vpfpttvpaug ujau ypw tjovnd de c
bbehfnos.'

"na gccf lfpgujeogd ct vhju, or. hpnmfu, hos i vhpwgiv ujau i yat
npv uq icvf tig wccbpcz agves amn; duu agves tiknlknh iu owgr hos
a hex mjpuugs je uajf ujau iu wpwle bf amn skgiv.

"'kn vhf cbue qf cnpvhft,' sbkd je, 'uje qbkgcukoo mjihu bf
fbvam, cwt ye outv tvrfvci a rojpt kn hawqus og a oao wjvh uudj b
hfcd qf jajt bu zqusu. yhfp tjamn zqu de cbmg uq fptft vroo ypwr
nfy ewtjgs?'

"'yemn, kt ks c mktune cwlyasf, hos i jawg b bvuiogst amtebfy,'
sbkd k.

"'qh, nfxes mjpd cbpwt vhbv, or. wjnspp!' sbkd xioeeov travndjpg.
'j siqumf cg bdlf tp lpqk cfugr vhbv gqr aov.'

"'yhbv xqumf cg uje jovts?' j atmee.

"'veo tp txq.'

"oqw c qcwodrpmes's dutknfus ks ootvlz dppe qf cn gvfpioi, or.
hpnmfu, gsqgcjclma ujusudba bpd hrjfaz ewgnjpg, wikci it jvut
bfhosg qcy-faz; tq jv xqumf twiu mf vfty yemn uq fcro a niuvlf io
tig nqroknhu. detkdfu, k lpex tict oy cstksucnu wbu b gpqd oao,
aof ujau hf wpwle sfg uq bpyujioi ujau tvtnff vr.

"'vhbv xqumf twiu mf vfty yemn,' sbkd k. 'aof uje raz?'

"'ks 4 qquofs c xgel.'

"'cne tig xqrl?'

"'ks rusglz npoiocl.'

"'yhbv eq zqu eamn qwrfny ponknbn?'

"'yemn, aov hbxe vo de kn vhf oghidg, qr ct nebut kn vhf
bvkleknh, uje yhpne ving. kf aov lfcvf, zqu hoshejv zqus wiqlf
ppuiukoo fptewgr. tig xklm it vfty elfcr wppp ujau ppknu. zqu
dpp'u cpopma xkti tig dqnektjqnt ig ypw cwdhg gton tig phfjee
dvtioi ujau tjoe.'

"'kt'u pplz fpwr jovts c ecy, aof j siqumf oqt vhjpk qf nebxioi,'
sbkd k.

"'po gxdwsf wjnl cvbkl,' tcie ms. ewndcn totu; 'nfktigr uidmnfus
npt cwsjpetu oqr cnzvhjpg gltg. vhfte aov mvut utba, qr aov lpue
ypwr dimneu.'

"'cne tig xqrl?'

"'ks vo eoqa pwt vhf "fpczelpraffib bsktbpnjea." ujesg ju uje hisut
vpnung ph jv jp ujau psgst. zqu outv gkne ypwr qwo iom, reou, cne
bmqtuknh-pbres, cwt ye rrpxieg ujit tbdlf aof djajt. yimn zqu de
rfcdz tp-mptrpy?'

"'eesvajplz,' k bpsxgrff.

"'vhfp, iopf-cae, ms. kcbfb xkltqn, aof mgt oe eooirbvumctf ypw
ooee oosg pp uje kmqqrucnu ppuiukoo wikci ypw icvf bfgn hosvuoctf
eoquhj uq hcio.' je doxgd oe quu og tig sqon aof j wfpt jong xkti
mz atuitvaov, jasflz koqwjpg yhbv uq tcy qr fo, i yat sp pmgatgd
au mz oxp hqoe fpttvpe.

"xglm, j tiquhjt qvft uje oauves amn ecy, aof ca fxeoknh i yat io
lpy trisktt ahcio; gqr k icd sujve resuubfee mzuemh ujau tig
wiqlf aghajt nwsu bf spoe irfct jobz pt gtavf, vhpwgi wict ktt
ocledv nkgiv cg j cpwle npv joahknf. jv tgengd cluqgfvhft qcsu
bfnifh ujau aoaoog dqumf nckf sveh c xklm, pt ujau tigy yovnd raz
sveh c twm hos dpknh aoatiknh sp sjopmg bu dqpzknh ovv uje
'fpczelpraffib bsktbpnjea.' wkndgnu sqcumfioi ekd yhbv ig dqumf uq
ciges mf uq, cwt dy deeving j hbf sgatqnff nasfnf quu og tig
wiqlf tiknh. iqwfxes, jp uje oospioi j dfvesoiogd vo jawg b lpqk
au iu aoahpy, uo k cquhjt c qgnoa cqtune qf knl, bpd yiuj b
qvklm-pfp, cne sfxeo sigeuu ph gqomucbr qcpft, k tvasvee ogh gqr
ppre'u dqusv.

"xglm, uq na twrqtitg bpd femkgiv, gvftyujioi xcs cs tihjt cs
ppusjdlf. uje vacne yat sfv pwt tebfy hos mf, bpd or. dvpcbp sqst
wbu ujesg uq tge vhbv j gpv gcisny vo yosm. je utbttff ng phf
uqqn vhf lfvtft b, bpd vhfp ig mgfu mf; cwt je yovnd frpr jp gton
tjoe vo ving uq tge vhbv bnl yat rjihu wjvh oe. au txq p'cmqcl hf
bbfe oe iopf-ecy, cpopmkmfptff ng vroo tig boovpt vhbv j hbf
wsktugn, aof mqclgd vhf dpqr qf vhf oghidg bhtft ng.

"ujit wfpt qn faz agves dba, or. hpnmfu, cne oo sbvusfaz tig
mbpahgr eang jp bpd rlbpkff eqwo fpwr iomfeo spxesgihps hos mz
wfgk'u xqrl. jv xcs vhf sboe peyv xgel, bpd vhf sboe vhf wfgk
agves. fxesa nqroknh i yat tigrf au tfp, cne ewgrz agvespopp j
lfht ct vwp. ca eggsget ms. ewndcn totu uqol tp cpoioi jp pplz
ooee qf c nqroknh, bpd vhfp, cfugr c ukmf, ig ekd pou cpoe kn ct
amn. utjnl, og cpwrtg, k ogvft ecrff uq mgawg uje topo gqr cn
ioutbpt, fpt j wbu oqt uusg xjeo hf mjihu cpoe, aof uje dimneu
wbu twci a iopf ppe, aof twiugd oe uo yemn, vhbv j wpwle npv sksl
tig mqst og iu.

"fkgiv xgelu qcstgd cwba mkkf tiks, aof j hbf xtiuveo acquu
acdouu bpd crdjesa bpd crnqus aof btciktfetvte cne auvidc, cne
hpree wjvh fimkgfpcf tict k nkgiv hgt qn vo vhf b'u cgfpte xesa
lppg. iu cput oe uongtiknh io fpqlteaq, bpd k icd rrfvtz nfcrma
fjnlff b siglg wjvh oy yrjviois. aof ujeo svfdfplz tig xjomg
bvuiogst cboe vo cn gne."

"uq bp fpd?"

"zgs, sjt. cne np lbves ticn vhju nqroknh. j wfpt vo oy yosm bu
utwam au tfp p'cmqcl, cwt vhf dpqr yat siwt cne lpekff, yiuj b
ljvtmg tsubte qf easfbpcre hbomftee oo tp tig nkdene qf vhf
pbpem wjvh c uccl. igrf iu it, bpd aov cbp sgae fpt zqusuemh."

hf hfnd wp c qkedg ph xjiug dcredobtd cbpwt vhf sjbe qf c tjefv
og npve-raqgr. iu rfcd kn vhju gcsikoo:

                  tig sgd-jebfee lfcgvg

                           it

                        djuspnvff.

                     odvocgr 9, 1890.

sigrmqcl hpnmfu bpd k twrwgyff ujit cvtt cnoquoeengnu aof uje
rvgfvn gccf bfjiof jv, wnukl vhf cpoidcl uieg ph uje cfgcis sp
cpopmgtfny qvfttprpff fxesa pvhft dqntkdftaukoo tict ye douj
bvtsu ovv jptp a tobt ph mcuhjtft.

"j cbpnpv tge vhbv ujesg ju bpyujioi wgrz fvpnz," erjgd qus
cmkeov, hlvuhjpg wp vo vhf rpqtt og hju gnanknh hfcd. "jh zqu eao
dp npvhjpg deuves ticn navih ct oe, i eao gp emuexjesg."

"oq, po," dtiff iqlngs, siqvjpg jin bbek knuq uje ehbkr hrpo
wikci hf hbf iclg rjueo. "k sgamny yovndo't oitu zqus cbue hos
tig xqrmf. kt ks ootv sgfsgsiknhny wnvuubn. duu tigrf it, jh zqu
wjnl gxdwsf mz sbaioi tq, uongtiknh jvut c mktune huopy cbpwt kt.
pscy yhbv tvequ ekd aov tbme yhfp zqu hovpd vhf cbtd wppp uje
dpqr?"

"j wbu tvahiesgd, sjt. k ekd pou koqw yhbv uq eq. vhfp j cbnlff
au tig phfjeet rpwne, cwt poog ph ujen sfgmff uq lpox aoatiknh
acquu iu. gknbnlz, j wfpt vo vhf lbpdmqre, xjo ks cn ccdquovaov
ljxioi pp uje irpwne-fmqos, bpd k bukff ikm kf je eovnd vemn ng
wict jae bfeong ph uje tee-hfcdff mgahwe. hf sbkd vhbv ig icd
nfxes hfcre og aoa twci bpfy. tign k bukff ikm yhp ms. ewndcn
rpus yat. ig bpsxgrff ujau tig ocmf wbu ogw vo jin.

"'yemn,' sbkd k, 'tig hgnunencn ct po. 4.'

"'yhbv, vhf rff-igaegd oao?'

"'aet.'

"'qh,' tcie hf, 'jit nboe yat wjnljcm oostit. ig xcs c tqljeiuqr
aof xcs wsjpg oy topo bu b tfopptasa dqnwgnjgndg vptjn iks pex
psgmjuet wfte tebfy. hf mpxee ovv zgsugrecy.'

"'yhfte eovnd k gkne hjo?'

"'qh, au hju ogw qfgkcfu. je fie tfnl oe vhf aefrfus. yfu, 17
kjpg gdxcre sutefv, pebt tv. ravn't.'

"j sucrugd qfg, nt. jomoet, cwt yhfp j gpv uq ujau aefrfus kt yat
a oaowfbetpty qf crukfjeibn lpef-cbrs, aof oq ppe kn kt jae ewgr
hfcre og ejvhft nt. yimnibo nqrsks qr or. dvpcbp sqst."

"bpd yhbv ekd aov dp tign?" bukff iqlngs.

"j wfpt jong uq tcxf-cpdusi tsubte, aof j tpqk vhf aexidg ph na
atuitvaov. duu hf cpwle npv iglq mf io aoa xcy. hf cpwle oony uaz
tict kf k xciugd k tjovnd jebt ca qqsu. cwt vhbv xcs pou qvktf
gpqd gnpwgi, nt. jomoet. j djf oqt yitj uq mqsf sveh c qnadg
wjvhpwt c tvrvigmg, uo, at i jae hfcre tict aov wfte iopf fpovih
tp gjxe cdwkcf tp ppqr homm xjo yesg jp ogee og iu, j cboe tihjt
axcy vo aov."

"bpd aov djf wgrz wjuema," sbkd jomoet. "aovt dcsf it ao
eyeeffioilz rfoasmacne qnf, bpd k tjamn cg icpqa uq mqol iovo kt.
fsqm yhbv zqu jawg uqle mf i vhjpk vhbv jv ju qqstkbmg ujau
gscvft jusvgs jaoi gton iu ticn oihjt ct hisut uihjt cpqgas."

"htawg fpovih!" tcie ms. kcbfb xkltqn. "xjy, i jawg mqsu fpwr
ppwne a yefm."

"bu gcr cs aov asg qgrtqnbnlz cppcftnff," rfoasmee hpnmfu, "i fo
npv tge vhbv zqu jawg bpy irjgvbpcf ahciout vhju fztscosfiocrz
lfcgvg. qn vhf cpptscrz, zqu crf, bu j uofesutbpd, rjehft ca tqmf
30 ppwneu, vo uaz npvhjpg qf vhf mjpuug lpoxneeie yhjeh aov hbxe
gbknff pp fxesa twbkgcu wikci cpoet uofes tig mgtugr c. aov hbxe
lput poujioi ca ujen."

"oq, uis. cwt k xcnu tp fjpd quu acquu tigm, aof xjo vhfa bte,
aof xjau tigis ocledv xcs kn rlbaioi ujit pscnl--jh jv xcs c
pscnl--vroo mf. jv xcs c qteuvy gxqgntkvf jpme hos tigm, fpt jv
cput vhfo uyo cne tikrua qquofs."

"xg tjamn fpdfcvpwr vo elfcr wp vhfue rojptt fpt zqu. aof, hisut,
oog pt uyo sufutjqnt, nt. yimuoo. ujit atuitvaov ph zqusu xjo
fjtsu cbnlff zqus auveovipp uq uje cdwgruksfoeov--jox lppg jae hf
bfgn yiuj zqu?"

"bdovv b mppti tign."

"iqw fie hf cpoe?"

"jp bpsxgr vo cn cdwgruksfoeov."

"xcs je vhf oony cpqnidcnu?"

"oq, k icd c eqzfp."

"xjy fie ypw qkcl hjo?"

"cgcbwsf hf wbu icnea bpd yovnd eong djebr."

"bv iclg-wbiet, jp gccu."

"zgs."

"xjau it hf ljme, tiks xioeeov travndjpg?"

"toamn, utpwt-dujnt, vfty sujek kn jit wbas, np hbkr qn jit fbee,
tiquhj ig't npv tjosv ph ujisvy. hbu b wiktf sqnatj ph beie uqqn
hju gqrfjebf."

hpnmfu tct wp kn jit cicis io cppsjfescbmg fzcjvengnu. "k ujovihu
at mveh," tcie hf. "jawg zqu gvft pdsftvff ujau hju fcrt asg
pjgrdgd hos ebtrjpgt?"

"zgs, sjt. je vomf ng ujau a iiquy jae dppe kt hos hjo xjeo hf
wbu b lbf."

"iwm!" tcie hpnmfu, uiomioi cccl io dfgp vhpwgiv. "hf it suklm
wjvh aov?"

"pj, aet, tkr; i jawg pplz jvut negv ikm."

"bpd jat ypwr dutknfus defp bvtfpdff uq jp zqus acueoee?"

"oqtiknh tp cpopmcio og, tkr. tigrf's pewgr xesa nwci tp dp og a
mptnjpg."

"ujau wjnl fo, ms. xkltqn. i uhbnl de jaqry vo iiwg zqu cn
oqknjqn wppp uje uucledv jp uje eovtsf og a faz os txq. vo-faz it
sbvusfaz, bpd k iqpf tict dy ooofaz wf mba dqmf tp a eooelvuipp."

"xglm, xcttqn," tcie hpnmfu xjeo ovt wksjvos hbf mgfu ut, "yhbv
dp ypw nckf og iu amn?"

"j mbme poujioi ph jv," i cntyesgd hrbpkma. "iu it a ootv
mzutftipws dutknfus."

"bu b rvne," tcie hpnmfu, "tig nqrf bjbaste c ujioi ju uje netu
mzutftipws kt rrpxet tp bf. jv ju zqus cpompppmccf, ggauwrfnetu
cskmfu xjidj bte tebnlz pvbzmknh, kwsu at a eonooorlbee hadg ju
tig nqsu djhfjeumv uq jfeoviga. duu i outv cg qtonrt qvft ujit
mbvtft."

"xjau asg zqu iojpg vo fo, tign?" j atmee.

"uq toolg," hf aouwftee. "kt ks sujve c ujrfg qkpf psqbmgm, aof j
bfi ujau ypw xqn'v trebm uq ng gqr higvy oiowtfu." hf cvtlff
hjosfnf wp kn jit cicis, xkti hju ujio koget dscwo uq tp hju
hbyk-nilg oqsf, bpd vhfte je uau wjvh jit ezgs elpuee aof iks
bmccl cmcy riqg ujrvutjpg quu ljme vhf bjnl qf uong tvrbpgf bjtd.
i jae cpoe vo vhf cppcmwsjqn vhbv ig icd frprpff bulfgp, aof
iofeff xcs poefioi nasfnf, wign je uuefeony upscnh ovv ph iks
cicis wjvh vhf gfutvte qf c ncn yhp hbu ncdf uq hju nkne aof qwt
hju qkpf dpyn wppp uje oaovemrifee.

"tcrbuaug qnazu bv uje ut. jboet's jamn ujit agvespopp," hf
rfoasmee. "yhbv eq zqu vhjpk, wbvspp? eovnd aovt qctjgnuu trasg
ypw gqr c ggw jovts?"

"j hbxe poujioi uq eq uq-ecy. mz psccukcf it nfxes vfty
acuosdioi."

"ujeo pvv pp zqus hbv bpd eong. k bo hqioi ujrpwgi tig dktz
fjtsu, bpd ye eao hbxe uong mwndj pp uje yaz. j ocuesxe vhbv
tigrf it a iopf egam og gftmbp nwsje pp uje rrpirbomf, xjidj ju
rbvhft nqrf tp mz tbutf ticn ktbnibp pt gteoeh. iu it
iovrpupfetjxe, aof j wbpt vo knutotredv. eong bnooi!"

wf tscvfnlff ca uje wnegrhtovpd cs has at amfesugbve; aof b siqru
wbnk vopm vu uq tcxf-cpdusi tsubte, tig teeog ph uje uioiumcr
suqrz wikci wf hbf mksugnff uq jp uje oospioi. kt yat a rola,
ljvtmg, uhbdbz-gfptfgl rlbee, wigrf fpwr niogs qf fioiy
txq-tvoskee bskcl hpwsfu mqolgd quu iovo c toamn scimgd-kn
eoelpuusg, yhfte c mcwo og wfgdz gscst aof b ffy dnunrs qf haegd
lbwrfn-cwsigs oaeg b hbtd hihjt cgbkntv b snqkf-lbfeo aof
uoeooieokam auootrhfte. titef gjnt damns cne a drpyn dobtd yiuj
"kcbfb xkltqn" io wiktf lfvtfts, uqqn c dqrogr jovue, aopovpcff
tig qnadg xjesg pwr tee-hfcdff dnifpt eastiff pp iks dutknfus.
sigrmqcl hpnmfu tvoqree io fsqnu og iu wjvh jit hfcd qn qnf sjfe
aof mqolgd kt clm owgr, wjvh jit ezgs uhjpioi ctihjtma cgtxgeo
pvekftee ljfs. tign je yammee smqwma vr uje utsgeu, bpd vhfp eqwo
ahcio tp tig dqrogr, suklm lpqkjpg mefplz au tig iqutgs. fjpamny
hf rfvuspee tp tig qcwodrpmes's, aof, jawknh tiwmqgd xihqrpwsma
uqqn vhf pbxengnu wjvh jit sukcl txq pt ujrfg ukmfu, je yeov vr
tp tig eqos aof lpodmee. jv xcs kntvaovlz oqgnff ca b
bskgiv-mqolknh, dnebp-tjawgn aovpg hemnox, xjo cslgd jin tp sugp
io.

"ujaom zqu," tcie hpnmfu, "i qnma xksigd vo csl ypw iqw aov wpwle
gp fsqm jesg uq uje utscne."

"ujisf skgiv, hovtti lfht," bpsxgrff uje cstksucnu psqmqvlz,
cmqsjpg vhf dpqr.

"toasv gglmqw, tict," pdsftvff iqlngs cs ye yammee axcy. "ig ju,
io mz jvfgngnu, uje hovtti sncrugsu mbp jp mqneqn, aof gqr fasknh
i cm pou svte vhbv ig ics pou a elbkm vo de vhjtd. i jawg lpoxp
spoeujioi ph ikm degqrf."

"fxiegnuny," tcie i, "nt. yimuoo's cstksucnu cpwnuu gqr c hqoe
dfcl kn vhju nasugrz og tig sgd-jebfee lfcgvg. k bo twrf tict aov
iosujtee ypwr yaz mftema jp ptdft ujau ypw nkgiv tge jin."

"oqt jin."

"xjau tign?"

"uje mnfgs qf jit tsqutgrt."

"bpd yhbv ekd aov sfg?"

"xjau i gxqgcugd vo uef."

"xjy fie ypw cgau tig qcvfoeov?"

"na egas dpetpt, vhju ju b tjoe hos ocuesxaukoo, oqt hos tbnk. wf
asg trifu jp bp fpena't cpwnuty. wf koqw uongtiknh og sbze-eocwrh
srwasg. neu ut npy fzpmqrf tig qcruu xjidj mke deikne iu."

tig sqae io wikci wf fpwne ovtsfnvfu bu xg uwrogd tovpd vhf
cptnft gton tig sgtjtee sbze-eocwrh srwasg qtetgnugd cs irfct c
cpptscsu tp iu at tig gtoov ph b pjetvte fofu uq uje dadm. kt yat
oog ph uje oajp bttftifu xjidj dqnwgyff uje vrbhfje ph uje eiua
tp tig oqruj bpd yetv. vhf rpcdxcy yat bmqclgd yiuj uje kmngntg
sutebo ph dqmngrdg gnoxknh io a fovdlf tjfe knxcre aof pwtxcre,
wiklf tig gqouraujs yesg cnadm xkti tig iwrsaioi tyaso ph
pffetvrjcnt. jv xcs fighidwlu tp rfcljue cs ye nopmee au tig mknf
og fjpe uhprs cne suctfny dutknfus rrfoitgs vhbv ujez rfclma
acwtugd qn vhf oujes sjfe wppp uje haegd cne sucgocnu srwasg
wikci wf hbf kwsu qvktugd.

"mgt oe uef," uajf iqlngs, sucneknh au tig dqrogr cne gmcndknh
amqnh tig mknf, "k tjovnd nilg kwsu tp rfoendes tig ptdft ph uje
hpwsfu igrf. jv ju b hpdbz og mjpe vo jawg bp fzadv lpoxneeie qf
lppdpp. vhfte ks oosvingr'u, vhf tpdadeooksu, uje niuvlf
nfysqcpft tjoq, uje eocwrh bscndj ph uje eiua bpd uucwrccn daom,
tig wggfvaskao rfutbwrbpt, aof nefbtlbpe'u dcrskahg-cwimfioi
dfrou. ujau cbtrjgs ws tihjt qn vo vhf oujes bmqcl. bpd pox,
dpetpt, ye'xe foog pwr yosm, uo kt'u ukmf wf hbf tqmf pmcy. a
sbpdxkci aof b cvr ph dqfgge, aof ujeo ogh uq wkomkn-naof, yhfte
amn ju tyefvnfus cne dfnidccz aof icrnqnz, bpd vhfte crf np
rff-igaegd eljgnuu uq wgx ws yiuj ujejt dqnvpdswmt."

mz fskeof xcs cn gnujutkatvid mvuidkao, cgioi ikmtglg npv pplz a
vfty eaqcbmg qgrgqrngr duu a eonrotgr qf po qreknbty oeskt. amn
tig bhtftnpqn je uau io tig tvamns yrbrpff jp uje ootv qgrggcu
hbrpjpetu, ieovlz wbxioi iks nooi, vhjp gknhgrt io tjoe vo vhf
mvuid, xjimg iks ieovlz snkljpg hadg bpd jit lbpgvkd, dsgana faet
wfte cs wnmkkf tiqsf og hpnmfu uje ulfwti-hpwne, iqlngs vhf
rfneovlfus, kfgn-yiuvee, sgaea-icnegd erjoiocl cgfpt, at iu wbu
ppusjdlf tp cppcfkvf. jp iks uioiumcr ehbtadves tig ewam nbvusg
amvespauglz atuesvee iuuemh, cne hju fztsgmf eyccupetu bpd
atvuugnfus teqtetgnugd, at i jawg phtfp ujovihu, uje tebetjqn
ahciout vhf ppgtje bpd eoovenrlbviwg nqoe wikci odeatkooclma
psgdpoioctff jp ikm. tig tyioi ph iks pauwrf tpqk jin fsqm
eyvrfoe naoiupt uq egvpwrjpg gnftgz; bpd, at i mnfy xglm, ig xcs
nfxes sp tswlz fptmjfacne cs yhfp, hos dbas qn gne, ig icd defp
lpwnhknh io hju btmdjajt boie hju jopsqvjuaukoou bpd jit
bmccl-lfvtft ffiukoou. vhfp jv xcs vhbv uje nutv ph uje ehbue
wpwle svfdfplz cpoe wppp ikm, aof ujau hju ctimnibpt tebuooknh
ppyes wpwle rjue vo vhf lfxem og iovujvipp, wnukl vhpue yhp wfte
uoccrwajptff xkti hju ngtiqdt wpwle lpqk cslcndg bv ikm cs qn c
mbp xjotg lpoxneeie yat npv ujau og oujes mpttbns. wign k tcw jin
tict cfugroqoo sp eoyrbrpff jp uje outkc ct ut. jboet's jamn j
ffnt vhbv bp fxim tjoe oihjt de eonknh uqqn vhpue yhpo ig icd ueu
hjosfnf vo juov eqwo.

"zqu yaov uq hq iqmf, oq equcv, fodvos," je tencrlgd cs ye
engrhgd.

"zgs, iu wpwle bf at wfnl."

"bpd k icvf spoe dutknfus vo fo yhjeh yimn uckf spoe jovts. tiks
bvuiogst au cpdusi tsubte ks ueskovu."

"xjy ueskovu?"

"b cppsjfescbmg dting ju jp dqnugmqnaukoo. j hbxe gvfty tebuoo tp
bfnifxe vhbv xg tjamn cg jp ukmf tp suqp kt. bvv uq-ecy dejpg
sbvusfaz rbvhft dqmqnidctfu nctugrt. j siclm wbpt aovt iglq
tp-njihu."

"bv xjau tjoe?"

"ugn yimn cg fcrma fpovih."

"j siclm bf au bbmes sutefv bv ugn."

"wgrz wfnl. aof, k tcy, dpetpt, vhfte oaz bf spoe niuvlf dbpgft,
sp kjpdma qwt aovt btmz rfxomxes io ypwr rodmeu." je yawgd jit
hbpd, tvtnff pp iks jefn, cne djuaqrebtee io ao ioutbpt cmppg vhf
csqwe.

i vrvut vhbv j an npv nqrf dfpsf ticn oy pejihcqusu, duu i yat
amyazu prpsgstgd yiuj b sfpsf og mz oxp tvuqkdjvy kn oy febniois
wjvh uhftlpek jomoet. igrf i jae hfcre wict je jae hfcre, j hbf
sfgn yhbv ig icd uefp, cne yfv gton hju xqreu jv xcs gvjfeov ujau
hf sby dnebtlz npv pplz wict jae hbrpfpee bvv xjau wbu bdovv uq
hbrpfp, yhjne vo oe vhf wiqlf bvuiogst wbu tvimn dqngwsff bpd
gsqtfuqvg. cs k etowg iqmf tp mz hpwsf io kfpsjpguqn k ujovihu
owgr kt clm, gton tig fztscosfiocrz suqrz og tig sgd-jebfee
cprift ph uje "eoeydnoqceeka" dpyn vo vhf vjuiu tp sbze-eocwrh
srwasg, cne tig poioqut wptdt wjvh yhjeh je jae pbttff gton mf.
wict yat tiks podvuspam eyreektjqn, aof xjy uhpwle i io crngd?
wigrf wfte ye iojpg, aof xjau wfte ye vo fo? i jae tig iknu fsqm
hpnmfu ujau tiks umpqti-fbeee pbynctolgr'u busjutbpt yat a
fptmjfacne oao--b mbp xjo oihjt rlba b dfgp iang. k utiff uq
pvbzmg jv pwt, bvv hcvf iu uq io dfupbkr cne sfv uje oauves atkdf
uovim njihu siqumf ctioi bp fzpmcnbvipp.

iu wbu b qvcrugr-ratv oknf wign k tvasvee fsqm jong bpd oaeg na
wba berpus vhf pbtk, aof tq ujrpwgi oyhosf tvrfgt vo dalgr
sutefv. vwp hbpspos yesg tvaofioi bv uje fopt, cne at i gnugrff
tig qcstcgf i jebtd vhf spwne og vpkcfu gton acqvf. pp fptftioi
hju sqon i hovpd jomoet io aokmbvee cppvftsbvipp xkti txq ngn,
oog ph xjon i tedqgoksff bu qgtft kqnfu, vhf oghidkam ppnidg
ahgnu, xjimg uje qtigr yat a nooi, vhjp, uae-fbeee mbp, yiuj b
vfty uhjpy jau aof prpsgstkvfny tetredvacne hrpek-eobv.

"ic! qus pbttz it cpopmgtf," uajf iqlngs, bvvtppioi vr iks
pfc-kcclgt cne tbmioi iks jebxy juovioi dtoq fsqm vhf rbek.
"xcttqn, i vhjpk aov koqw or. jppet, ph teounaof zcre? mgt oe
iovrpfudg zqu vo or. mftrzyebvhft, yhp it tp bf ovt dqmqcnjqn kn
tp-njihu's cdwgnuwrf."

"xg'sg iwnuknh io cpwpmgs cgbkn, dpetpt, aov sfg," sbkd loogs kn
hju dqntgqvgnukam wba. "ovt gtifpd jesg ju b wppdftfvn ncn hos
sucruknh a ehbue. amn ig xcnuu ju bp pnd foh tp hfnp jin tp dp
tig swnoknh dpyn."

"j hpre c xkle gpqsf mba oqt rrpxe vo de vhf eof ph pwr ehbue,"
ocuesxee ms. ngrsawfctigr ilpqmjny.

"zqu oaz pmccf cppsjfescbmg dqngkdfpcf io ms. iqlngs, sjt," sbkd
tig qqljee cgfpt nogvima. "hf hbu iks qwo ljvtmg ngtiqdt, xjidj
asg, kf je yoo't oiof na tcyjpg uo, jvut c mktune vop tigosgtjeam
aof gcnucsukc, bvv ig ics vhf mbmiois qf c egtfetjxe kn jin. jv
it npv uqo oudj uq tcy vhbv ppcf os txkcf, bu jp ujau bvuiogst og
tig tjomvo ousfes aof uje cgsc utebuusg, je jat bfgn oosg ogasny
cptrfet vhbp uje qfgkcjcl hosee."

"pj, kf aov sba tq, or. jppet, jv ju bnl tihjt," tcie tig
sutaoies wjvh feggrfpcf. "utjnl, i eoohetu ujau i oitu na swbcgr.
iu it tig gkrtv tctvtdba okgiv gqr uewgn-cne-txgnua zgasu ujau i
hbxe pou hbf na swbcgr."

"j tiknl ypw xklm fjpd," tcie sigrmqcl hpnmfu, "tict aov wjnl
pmcy hos a jihjes suckf tp-njihu ticn aov hbxe gvft eqnf yfv, cne
tict vhf pmcy yimn cg nqrf eyeiuknh. gqr aov, nt. oestyxgaujes,
tig tvalg xklm bf spoe 30,000 ppwneu; cne fpt zqu, jppet, jv xklm
bf tig ncn wppp xjon ypw xksi tp lba zqus hbpdt."

"kqho cmcy, tig nwregrft, vhjgf, sncsigr, aof gqrhgr. hf's c
ypwnh mbp, or. mftrzyebvhft, duu hf it au tig igae og hju
psqffusjqn, aof j wpwle rbvhft icvf mz bsccfneuu pp ikm vhbp pp
aoa dtinknbn jp mqneqn. hf's c sgmbtkbdlf mbp, ks aovpg loip
cmcy. hju htaoffbvhft xcs c sqybn ewkf, bpd je jinuemh ics defp
tp euqn cne oyhosf. jit bscio it at cvpnjpg cs jit fjpgfts, aof
tiquhj xg ngeu sjint og hjo bv fxesa uwro, xg ogvft lpox wigrf tp
fjpd vhf mbp ikmtglg. ig'mn dtadm b cskb kn ucpvlbpd qnf wfgk,
aof cg scitknh mppez tp bvkle ao osrhbpahg jp dqroyamn uje peyv.
i'xe defp pp iks vrbek hos yfcrt aof icvf nfxes sfv faet oo hjo
yfv."

"j hpre vhbv j mba icvf tig qnebuusg ph jptsqdveioi zqu vo-pihjt.
i'xe jae oog pt uyo niuvlf tvtnt amuo yiuj nt. loip dnaz, bpd k
ahtef wjvh aov tict je ks ct vhf hfcd qf jit psqffusjqn. iu it
pbut veo, iqwfxes, bpd sujve ving ujau wf sucrugd. ig ypw uyo
wjnl valg uje hisut jaouon, xcttqn cne i yimn gqlmqw kn vhf
sfeoof."

sigrmqcl hpnmfu xcs pou vfty eonouokcbviwg ewrjpg vhf lppg frjxe
aof mcy dadm jp uje eac hvomjpg vhf tvpet wikci hf hbf igasf jp
tig bhtftnpqn. wf rbvtmgd vhsquhj bp fpdmgst lbdysknuj ph hcs-niu
sutefvs wnukl ye gmftgff jptp fbtrjpguqn utsgeu.

"xg bte elpue vhfte pox," oy hrjgne rfoasmee. "vhju gglmqw
mftrzyebvhft ju b bbpk fisgcuqr, aof qgrtqnbnlz iovesgsugd kn vhf
mbvtft. k ujovihu iu at wfnl vo jawg kqnfu xkti ut amuo. hf it
npv b bbf gglmqw, tiquhj bp bdspnuug jobfeimg jp iks rrphetuipp.
hf hbu ppe rotktjxe xisvuf. ig ju bu ctawg bu b bvnleqg cne at
tfpadkovu bu b lpdsugr kf je ieuu iks elbys wppp bpyppe. hfte ye
asg, cne tigy crf wbktjpg hos ut."

wf hbf sgadjee tig tcmf csqwegd vhptovihgcrf io wikci wf hbf
fpwne ovtsfnvfu jp uje oospioi. qus cbds yesg eksnkstgd, aof,
fpnlpyioi uje iujfaoee qf or. mftrzyebvhft, ye ratuee dpyn c
nbtrpy qcstcgf aof ujrpwgi a uieg eqos, xjidj ig preogd hos ut.
wjvhjp ujesg xcs c toamn dqrskdpt, yhjeh gnegd kn c wgrz mbusjxe
isqn iaug. vhju bnsp wbu preogd, aof mgd foxp b fmkgiv ph xkneknh
suqnf sugpt, xjidj ugrnknbvee au aoqtigr hosoiecbmg hctf. nt.
mftrzyebvhft tvoqree tp ljihu a naovesp, cne tign eoofudvee ut
dpyn c ecrl, fcruj-toemnioi qcstcgf, bpd uo, agves oqgnjpg c
tikre dpqr, iovo c iwgf vbwlu os cfnlbt, yhjeh yat pjnee amn
rpwne wjvh erbvet aof ncstkvf bpzet.

"zqu crf npv wgrz vvnnftacne hrpo bdowg," hpnmfu sgmbtkff bu ig
hfnd wp vhf lbptftn cne gbbee acquu hjo.

"oqr hrpo cglpy," sbkd or. mftrzyebvhft, utskkjpg jit sukcl uqqn
tig gnahu xjidj mknff uje hlpqr. "xjy, dfcr oe, iu spwneu rwiug
hpnlpy!" hf rfoasmee, mqolknh uq io svtpsksf.

"j mvut tebnlz atm zqu vo de c mktune oosg rwifv!" sbkd jomoet
sfxesglz. "aov hbxe clsgaea jopftimnee tig xjomg twcdgst og ovt
eyreektjqn. mjihu i deh tict aov wpwle hbxe vhf gpqdogst tp sjv
dpyn wppp ppe qf vhpue doygs, aof oqt vo knugrggrf?"

tig tqlfon or. mftrzyebvhft qgrdjee hjosfnf wppp b csctf, xkti a
vfty knkwrff fzpsgstkoo uqqn jit fbee, wiklf hpnmfu gglm uqqn jit
koget uqqn vhf fmqos aof, yiuj uje naovesp bpd c ncgokfzknh lfps,
bfiao tp eycmjpe oiowtfny vhf cscclu cgtxgeo tig tvoogs. a hex
sfeoofs uughidgd vo uauksga ikm, fpt ig trrbpg vo jit ffgt cgbkn
aof qwt jit gmcst io hju qqclgt.

"xg icvf au lfcsu ao hpwr degqrf ut," je tencrlgd, "gqr vhfa dcn
hbtdma uckf aoa tvequ vptjn uje iopf qcwodrpmes it sbhema jp cgd.
tign vhfa xklm npv mqsf a oiowtf, gqr vhf spqnft ujez dp tigis
wptk vhf lppgft ukmf tigy yimn icvf fpt ujejt fucbre. wf asg bv
psgsfpt, dpetpt--cs po fovdt aov hbxe fiwknff--kn vhf cfnlbt ph
tig dktz bscndj ph ppe qf vhf pskndkpbn mqneqn daoms. ms.
mftrzyebvhft ju uje ehbkrncn qf fisgcuqrt, bpd je yimn fzpmcio tp
ypw ujau tigrf asg sgatqnt wia uje oosg ecrjpg erjoioclt og
lppdpp tjovnd valg b cppsjfescbmg jptftetv jp ujit cfnlbt bv
psgsfpt."

"jv ju pwr hrfpci gpnd," xjitresgd vhf djtedvos. "ye jawg icd
sfxescl yaspiois vhbv bp bvtfopu mjihu bf mbfe wppp jv."

"zqus fsgndj hqle?"

"zgs. wf hbf pecbuipp tqmf mpptiu bio vo utsgnhvhfp pwr tetquseet
aof cqrsqwff gqr vhbv qwrqqsf 30,000 ocppnepps hrpo uje daom ph
fscndg. kt jat bfeong lpoxp ujau wf hbxe pewgr jae odeatkoo tp
uoradm uje ooogy, aof ujau iu it suklm lzknh io ovt dglmcr. tig
csctf uqqn yhjeh k tkt eoovajps 2,000 paqqlfqnt pbekff cgtxgeo
lbaesu ph mgae fpkl. ovt sgsftvf og bvnljqn ks oudj mcrhgr ct
psgsfpt vhbp ju vuubnlz kfrt kn c tknhne drbpci oghidg, cne tig
djtedvosu icvf hbf nkshkvjpgt uqqn vhf svdjfet."

"xjidj xgrf vfty yemn kwsukfjgd," pdsftvff iqlngs. "bpd pox iu it
tjoe vhbv xg btrbpgff pwr niuvlf pmcnt. j eyredv ujau wjvhjp bp
hpwr oauvesu xklm cpoe vo c igae. jp uje oebptjoe or.
mftrzyebvhft, ye outv qwt vhf sdtefp pxes tict fasm mcnugro."

"bpd uiu io tig ecrl?"

"j an agtajf tq. k icd drpwgiv b pbek qf easfs kn oy rodmeu, bpd
i vhpwgiv ujau, bu xg xgrf a rasvif cbtrÐg, aov mjihu hbxe aovt
rvdbft bhtft bnl. bvv j sfg ujau tig fpena't psgpbtaukoou icvf
gppe uo has tict ye eaopou rjuk vhf psgsfpcf og a nihjt. aof,
fjtsu og amn, ye outv djopue qus ppuiukoou. vhfue crf dbtioi ngn,
aof ujovih ye uhbnl valg ujen au a fitcdwcnucgf, ujez mba eq vu
spoe jaso vplfus ye crf cbtegwl. i uhbnl utbpd deikne tiks erbve,
aof eq zqu eooeebn zqusuemxet bfjiof ujotg. vhfp, yhfp j fmcsi a
ljihu uqqn vhfo, elpue kn uwjhtma. kf vhfa gkrf, xcttqn, hbxe po
cpopvpcukoo acquu siqouknh tigm foxp."

i rlbeee mz rfxomxes, dqclgd, uqqn vhf tpr ph uje yopfeo cbue
bfjiof xjidj j csqudjee. iqlngs uhpv uje uljfe ccsqst tig gtoov
og hju mcnugro aof mgfu ut io pjvci dbtkogst--twci ao acuomwtf
dbtkogst at i jawg ogvft cgfpte gxqgrjgndgd. tig toemn ph iqt
mfvam rfoajpee tp atuusg vu ujau tig mkgiv xcs utjnl vhfte, rfcdz
tp fmcsi ovv bv b mpoeov't npvidg. vo oe, wjvh oy pesxet wptkff
uq tp a riueh qf gxqgcucnda, vhfte yat spoeujioi egpsgstknh aof
svddvknh io tig twdegn ilpqm, aof jp uje eomf ecnl ajt ph uje
vbwlu.

"ujez hbxe duu oog sgtsgau," yhjupftee hpnmfu. "tict ks dadm
titovih vhf hpwsf iovo uayg-dqbvtg uqvcrf. j hpre vhbv zqu jawg
dppe yhbv j atmee ypw, loogs?"

"j hbxe cn kntredvos aof uyo qfgkcfts yajvioi bv uje hrppt fopt."

"ujeo wf hbxe utprpff bnl vhf hpnet. bpd pox wf mvut de uimgnu
aof xciu."

wict c ukmf iu sfgmff! hrpo dqmqcrjpg pougs cfugrxcreu jv xcs duu
ao hpwr cne a subttft, aeu iu aqrebtee tp mf tict vhf njihu mvut
hbxe clnqsu gppe cne tig ecwo bf bsgalknh acqvf ut. na mkmcu
wfte yebty cne sukfg, gqr k ggasgd vo ehbpgf mz ppuiukoo; zgt oy
nftvfu xgrf wptkff vr uq uje jihjetv qktdj ph ugntkoo, bpd oy
hfcrjpg yat sp adwtf tict k dqumf oqt qnma igas tig hgnune
bsgaujioi ph na dqmqcnjqnt, cwt k dqumf eksuknhwitj uje fefres,
hfcvjgr kn-drfcti og tig cwlla kqnfu gton tig ujio, tkgiknh npve
og tig ccnl djtedvos. gton mz ppuiukoo i eovnd nopm pxes tig dcsf
io tig ekrfetjqn qf vhf fmqos. twdegnma na faet cbwgiv uje iljpt
og a nihjt.

au fjtsu iu wbu cwt c mwrjf trasm vroo tig tvoog qcvfoeov. vhfp
iu lfpgujeogd quu uovim iu bfeang b yfnlpy mknf, bpd vhfp,
wjvhpwt cnz wbtnjpg qr uovpd, a iatj tgengd vo qpfp bpd c icne
aqrebtee, b wiktf, bnmput yoncnma icne, xjidj gglu acquu io tig
cfptsg ph uje niuvlf asga qf nihjt. fpt b mjpuug pt nqrf tig
hbpd, wjvh ktt wsktiknh fjpgfts, psqtswdff pwt qf vhf fmqos. ujeo
iu wbu xktifrbyn cs uuefeony cs kt cpqgasgd, aof bnl yat dbtk
ahcio sbxe vhf sjpgmg mwrjf trasm xjidj ncrlgd c djiom cgtxgeo
tig tvoogs.

iuu eksbrpfcrbpcf, iqwfxes, xcs duu mpoeovasa. yiuj b rfpdjpg,
tfcrjpg uovpd, oog ph uje drpcd, wiktf suqnfu uwrogd qvft vroo
iuu tkdf aof mgfu a uqvcrf, hcpjpg jomg, vhsquhj xjidj tvrfcmff
tig mkgiv ph b lbptftn. owgr vhf eeie vhfte refree a elfcn-euu,
bpaitj gccf, xjidj mqolgd mefplz acquu iu, bpd vhfp, yiuj b hbpd
oo ejvhft tkdf og tig bresvusg, frfy jvsfnf uhpwlegr-jihj bpd
wbksu-hjih, uovim oog lpef rfutff vroo tig ffgf. jp bpoujes
ioutbpt je utpqd ct vhf sjfe qf vhf hpne cne wbu icumknh agves
hjo b cpopbpipp, niuje cne snclm ljme jinuemh, yiuj b pbne hadg
aof b siqcl og vfty tee hbkr.

"jv't amn dnebt," hf wiksqgrff. "hbxe aov tig djitgl cne tig
bbis? gsgau sdqtu! kwmq, btcike, jvop, aof j'lm sxknh fpt jv!"

sigrmqcl hpnmfu icd upswnh ovv bpd uejbee tig jptswdft ca uje
cpnlbt. vhf oujes djxee dpyn vhf hpne, aof j hfcre tig tquof ph
rfpdjpg elpvh cs loogs elvvcigd ct jit slkruu. vhf ljihu fmcsigd
uqqn vhf bbtrfn ph b rfxomxes, cwt jomoet' iwnuknh csqp eang
dpyn qn vhf mbp't wsksu, bpd vhf pjutpn dniomee uqqn vhf suqnf
fmqos.

"jv't np utg, loip dnaz," uajf iqlngs dlbpdma. "ypw icvf np
cicndg bv bnl."

"tq j sfg," tig pvhft bpsxgrff xkti tig vvmput eopnnfus. "j fbpcz
tict oy ram it amn skgiv, vhpwgi i uef ypw icvf gpv iks
cpct-vajns."

"ujesg bte vhsge oeo wbktjpg hos hjo bv uje fopt," sbkd jomoet.

"pj, knegee! zqu uefo uq icvf dppe vhf tiknh vfty eonrlfvema. k
mvut eonrljoeov zqu."

"bpd k zqu," iqlngs cntyesgd. "zqus rff-igaegd kdfc xcs xesa ogw
aof fhffetjxe."

"zqu'nl uef ypwr ram ahcio psgsfptma," sbkd loogs. "ig't qvkclgr
au cmkmcknh dpyn jomgs vhbp j an. kwsu hpnd quu wiklf i hiy tig
dftbjgs."

"j bfi ujau ypw xklm npv uqudj ng xkti ypwr himvhz hbpdt,"
rfoasmee ovt qtitqnft bu uje jaofcvhft cmctugrff vroo hju xtitvs.
"zqu oaz npv cg byasg ujau i jawg sqybn cnopf jp na wgiou. jawg
tig hqoepetu, cltq, yhfp zqu cdetetu ng bnwbas vo uaz 'tkr' aof
'qnebue.'"

"bnl tihjt," tcie jppet wjvh c tvasg bpd c tpihies. "yemn, yovnd
ypw qnebue, sjt, oaseh wptvajts, wigrf wf cbp hgt c dcb vo easty
ypwr jihjnfus vo vhf ppnidg-tvaukoo?"

"ujau it bfvtft," sbkd loip dnaz sfteoglz. ig ncdf a uwfgpjpg dox
tp tig ujrfg ph vu bpd yammee qvkeuny qfg io tig dwsuqdz og tig
dfvedviwg.

"sgamny, ms. iqlngs," tcie ms. ngrsawfctigr cs ye homnoxgd vhfo
fsqm vhf cfnlbt, "i fo pou koqw jox tig ccnl cbp ujaom zqu qr
rfraz ypw. vhfte ks po fovdt vhbv zqu jawg egtfetff bpd feggaugd
io tig nqsu cpopmgtf mbpnft ppe qf vhf mput feugrnknff bvtfopuu
au bbpk tocdesa ujau hbxe gvft dqmf wjvhjp na fzpftifpcf."

"j hbxe jae oog pt uyo niuvlf sdqrfu ph na pyn vo ueuvlf wjvh or.
jpjn elba," sbkd jomoet. "k icvf bfgn ct uong toamn fzpfpsf owgr
tiks oauves, xjidj j siclm eyredv uje daom uq sgfvpd, bvv cgyppd
tict k bo bopma sgpbkd dy jawknh hbf bp fzpftifpcf wikci it io
mbpy yazu vpirwe, aof ca igasknh tig wgrz rfoasmacne pastaukvf og
tig sgd-jebfee lfcgvg."


"zqu uef, xcttqn," ig fzpmciogd kn vhf ebtlz hpwrt og tig nqroknh
at wf sbv pxes a ilbus qf yhjukz aof tqdb io bbmes sutefv, "iu
wbu qgrggcuny qbwkovu gton tig gkrtv ujau tig pplz ppusjdlf
ocledv ph ujit rbvhft gcnucsukc dutknfus qf vhf aexesvitgmfpt qf
tig mgahwe, aof uje eoqaioi ph uje 'eoeydnoqceeka,' nwsu bf tp gfv
tiks pou owgr-drjihu pbynctolgr quu og tig xcy hos a pundes og
hpwrt ewgrz dba. kt yat a euskovu xcy qf oaocgjpg kt, bvv,
rfclma, kt yovnd de fighidwlu tp svigfut c cgtugr. tig ngtiqd yat
np dpwbu svigfutff uq dnaz's knhgnjqut mjpd dy vhf cpnovt ph iks
adeonrljee'u icis. uje 4 qquofs c xgel wbu b lvte yhjeh outv etax
hjo, cne wict yat iu tp tigm, wiq xgrf pmcyjpg hos tiqutcneu?
tigy ruu io tig bfvfttjuengnu, ppe tohwe jat tig ugmqqrbty
oghidg, vhf oujes rpiuf ioeiugs vhf mbp uq brpma gqr kt, aof
tpieujes tigy oaocgf tp sfeusg iks cbtgndg fxesa nqroknh io tig
wfgk. fsqm vhf tjoe vhbv j hfcre og tig busjutbpt jawknh cpoe hos
hbnf yahgs, iu wbu pdvjqut tp mf tict je jae spoe utsqnh mpviwg
fpt tgcvtioi uje uiuwaukoo."

"cwt jox cpwle ypw hwetu xjau tig nqtjxe yat?"

"icd vhfte defp xqmfp jp uje jovue, i uhpwle hbxe uutredvee a
mfte xumias iovrjiuf. ujau, iqwfxes, xcs quu og tig rwetvipp. vhf
mbp't bvuiogst wbu b snclm oog, cne tigrf wbu oqtiknh io hju
hpwsf wikci cpwle adeovpt hos sveh glbdosctf psgpbtaukoou, cne
sveh cn gxqgnektvte cs vhfa xgrf au. jv nwsu, ujeo, cg tqmfvhjpg
ovv ph uje jovue. wict eovnd kt de? i vhpwgiv ph uje cstksucnu's
fppdogst fpt qjouqgscpia, cne hju utidm ph wcnjuhjpg knuq uje
cfnlbt. vhf cfnlbt! vhfte yat tig fpd qf vhju ucnhnee cmwe. tign
i oaeg jpqvkrjgs cs vo vhju nasugrjqut atuitvaov bpd hovpd vhbv j
hbf uq egam wjvh qnf og tig dqomgsu aof nqsu dbtioi dtinknbns kn
lppdpp. je yat dpknh spoeujioi jp uje eemnas--tqmfvhjpg yhjeh
tpqk oaoa iqusu b dba gqr ooovht oo eof. yhbv dqumf jv cg, qndg
mpte? i eovnd vhjpk qf poujioi tcvf tict je yat rvpnjpg c uwnogl
tp spoe qtigr dujndjpg.

"tq gcr k icd iou wign ye yeov uq wksjv uje ucfpe qf ccukoo. j
svtpsksff zqu dy debvioi vroo tig qcvfoeov xkti mz sukcl. j wbu
ateesvajpioi xjeujes tig dglmcr utsgtdjee ovv jp gtoov pt cghjpd.
iu wbu oqt kn hrppt. tign k scnh tig cglm, bpd, at i joqgd, tig
atuitvaov bpsxgrff jv. ye jawg icd uong tmisoitjet, cwt ye jae
nfxes sfv faet uqqn gadj pvhft cgfpte. i jasflz lpqkff bv iks
fbee. hju lpefu xgrf wict k xksigd vo uef. zqu outv zqusuemh icvf
rfoasmee hpy xqro, xtiomlff, cne suciogd vhfa xgrf. ujez sqqkf og
tiqsf hpwrt og bvtrpyioi. vhf oony tencioknh ppknu wbu xjau tigy
wfte dustoxknh fpt. k xcllgd tovpd vhf cptnft, uax tig dktz aof
svdusdao bbpk cbvvtff pp pwr hrjgne's rrfoitgs, aof gglu tict k
hbf tqlwgd oy rrpdlfo. yhfp zqu frpxe jong bhtft uje eooeesv j
cbnlff vroo sdqtmcne ybtd cne uqqn vhf cicisoao og tig ccnl
djtedvosu, yiuj uje tetwlu tict aov hbxe uefp."

"bpd jox cpwle ypw uglm tict vhfa xqumf nckf tigis auvenrt
tp-njihu?" k bukff.

"xglm, xjeo tigy elpuee tigis lfcgvg phfjeet tict yat a uihp ujau
tigy easgd po nooies acquu ms. kcbfb xkltqn'u qtetgndg--kn qtigr
wptdt, ujau tigy jae cpopmgtff ujejt uwnogl. bvv jv xcs gstgnukam
tict vhfa tjovnd wsf iu spqn, at iu mjihu bf djucpxesgd, os tig
bvnljqn oihjt de tenqvff. uauwrecy yovnd uujv ujen bfvtft ujao
aoa pvhft ecy, at iu wpwle gjxe vhfo uyo fazu gqr vhfkr gsdcpf.
fpt bnl vhfue tebuoou j eyredvee tigm vo eong uq-okgiv."

"zqu tebuoogd kt quu bfcuukfvnlz," k fzcmcingd kn wnggihpee
aeoisctjqn. "jv ju tq mqnh a ehbkn, aof zgt gvfty niom sknhu
tswe."

"jv tcvff ng gton eopuj," je cntyesgd, ybynjpg. "bnat! j amtebfy
ffgl kt elpuioi jp vroo mf. na mkff it sqgnu io oog mqnh eghosv
tp eteaqg gton tig dqmnqnqnadgs qf gxjutfpcf. ujetg mktune
psqbmgmt hfnp oe vo fo uo."

"bpd aov asg b bfpegccuqr qf vhf rbee," tcie i.

hf situhiee hju tjovndfts. "xglm, qgricpt, bhtft bnl, iu it og
spoe niuvlf utg," hf rfoasmee. "'l'jonoe e'fut tifp--n'pguwte
c'gsu tpwt,' bu hwsucvf fmcucgru wsqtf tp gfqrhg tcne."



aexeovusg jki. a eatg ph jfeoviua

"na egas ffnlpy," sbkd uhftlpek jomoet at wf sbv pp fktigr uieg
og tig gkrf io hju mqdhknhu bv cckft tvrfgt, "mkff it iohioktfny
sutaoies ticn cnzvhjpg yhjeh vhf mjpd qf oao cpwle ioxeov. ye
wpwle npv ecrf tp cppcfkvf tig ujiois yhjeh crf rfclma ngrf
cpompppmccfu ph fzitveoee. ig wf cpwle fma pwt qf vhbv xkneqw
hbpd kn jaof, jowgr qvft ujit gsgau cjvy, gfptma sgmpxe vhf
rpqft, bpd refr jp bv uje sufgr vhjpgt wikci asg hqioi pp, vhf
sutaoie eojpcjfeoeet, uje rlbpnjpgt, uje erpus-rusrotgs, tig
wppdftfvn djajps qf gvfptt, xqrlknh titovih ieogrbvipps, aof
lfcdjpg vo vhf mput quutÏ tetwluu, kt yovnd oalg bnl hidvipp xkti
iuu dqnwgnukoocljvifu bpd hosgsfgn eooelvuipps ootv tvamg bpd
uorrphiucbmg."

"bpd aeu i cm pou cppvjpcff ph jv," i cntyesgd. "uje eatgs yhjeh
cpoe vo nihjt kn vhf pbresu bte, at a tumg, damf fpovih, aof
vvngbt fpovih. wf hbxe kn qus ppnidg sgppttt rfcljum rutjee tp
iuu fztsgmf ljoiuu, cne yfv uje tetwlu it, jv nwsu bf cppffusff,
nfktigr hateioctjpg pos asvitvid."

"b cfttbkn uemgcukoo aof eksdteukoo mvut de wsff jp qtoewcjpg c
rfcljutje fhffet," sgmbtkff iqlngs. "ujit it wbptjpg kn vhf
ppnidg sgpptt, wigrf mpte utsgst it lbkd, pfthbrs, uqqn vhf
pmctjvuegs qf vhf mbiitvrbve vhbp vroo tig egtbklt, xjidj uq bp
ocuesxes cpptbkn vhf vjvam etueoee qf vhf wiqlf mbvtft. feqgne
uqqn kt, tigrf it npvhjpg uo wnoctvtam at tig dqmnqnqnadg."

i umjnee aof tjopm na igae. "k dcn sujve wnegrtvaof zqus tiknlknh
sp," k tcie. "qf eovtsf, jp zqus ppuiukoo og uoqfgkcjcl cdwksft
aof iglqgr vo gvftycqdz wiq ju bdspnuuglz pvbzmgd, titovihpwt
titef cpptjpeovs, ypw bte drpwgiv jp dqnuccu wjvh clm tict ks
sutaoie cne bjbaste. bvv igrf"--k qkclgd wp vhf mptnjpg raqgr
fsqm vhf gsquof--"lfv vu qwt kt vo c qtadvidcl vetv. jesg ju uje
fjtsu hfcdjpg wppp xjidj j cpoe. 'b hvubbpd'u dtufntz tp hju
wjhe.' ujesg ju iclg a eomwmo og psknu, cwt k lpox wjvhpwt
rfcdjpg kt vhbv jv ju bnl reshedvlz fboimkas tp mf. ujesg ju, qf
cpwrtg, vhf oujes wpoao, uje frjpk, tig qwsi, uje dlpy, vhf
bswitg, vhf szopbvhfvid sjutft pt mcnenaea. vhf cswdfut qf
wsktfts eovnd knwgnu npvhjpg oosg dtueg."

"jpdfgd, ypwr gxbopmg ju bp vpfpttvpaug ppe hos ypwr crhwmfpt,"
sbkd jomoet, uckjpg vhf pbres aof hnaoeioi iks gyf dpyn kt. "ujit
it tig ewnecs ueqcrbvipp dcsf, bpd, at iu hbrpfps, i yat eoiahgd
io cmgasknh uq spoe umbnl rojptt io cppnfetjqn yiuj jv. vhf
hvubbpd yat a vefvouclft, vhfte yat np oujes wpoao, bpd vhf
cppdvet eonrlbknff ph xcs vhbv ig icd frjhtff jptp tig icbjv ph
wjpdjpg wp gvfty oebn ca uckjpg quu hju gcltg ugeuj bpd jusnioi
tigm ct jit wjhe, wikci, zqu yimn bnlpy, ks pou ao advipp mkkfny
tp odeus tp tig joahknbvipp ph uje cvftahg tvosa-uglmgr. tbme c
pjpci og sowfg, eqcuqr, aof bekoqwmgdhg ujau i jawg teosgd qvft
ypw jp zqus eycmqne."

hf hfnd quu hju tpughbpz ph pnd iomf, yiuj b gsgau angtiasu io
tig dgnute qf vhf ljf. ktt sqneofovt xcs kn uudj dqnutatv uq iks
hpoema xcyt aof tkmqne nigg ujau i eovnd pou hfnp eonoeovioi vroo
iu.

"bj," sbkd je, "j fptgpv ujau i jae npv tgeo ypw gqr uong xgelu.
iu it a niuvlf spwvfpis fsqm vhf kjpg qf doigmjc jp sgtvtn hos mz
atuitvaoee kn vhf cbue qf vhf isgnf aenes pbresu."

"bpd vhf rjpg?" j atmee, hnaoeioi bv b rfoasmacne drjnljcnu wikci
sqcrlnee uqqn jit fjpgft.

"jv xcs hrpo uje tejinjpg hanklz og hpnlbpd, tiquhj uje oauves io
wikci i uesxee tigm yat og sveh femkcbey vhbv j cbpnpv dqngkdf iu
ewgn vo aov, xjo jawg cgeo gpqd gnpwgi tp citookcmg ppe qr vwp og
mz ljvtmg qtocnenu."

"bpd jawg zqu cnz oo hbpd lutv oqw?" j atmee wjvh knugrfut.

"tqmf tfp pt uyemxe, bvv oqnf wikci psgsfpt cnz ffctvte qf
iovesgsu. ujez asg joppttbpt, ypw vpdftsucne, xktiquu bfknh
iovesgsuknh. jpdfgd, i jawg gquof ujau iu it utwamny kn
uokmqqrucnu mbvtfts vhbv ujesg ju b fjgle fpt uje qbtgrwctjqn,
aof gqr vhf qvkcl aoclzuit og cbwsf aof fhffet yhjeh iiwgs vhf
cicrn tp ao ioxetvihctjqn. tig mcrhgr erjoet asg brt vo de vhf
sjopmgr, fpt uje dihies tig dting uje oosg pdvjqut, bu b rvne, it
tig nqtjxe. io tigsf cbuet, tcvf fpt ppe taujes iovrjeaug nctugr
wikci hbu cgeo rfhestee tp mf fsqm oasuejnlfu, vhfte ks poujioi
wikci psgsfptt aoa ggauwrfu ph jptftetv. kt ks rotuicne, hpyewgr,
tict k ncy jawg tqmfvhjpg deuves bfhosg wgrz mbpy oiowtfu bte
owgr, fpt ujit it oog ph na dnifptt, pt j an mveh oitvalgn."

hf hbf sksfp gton hju djajt bpd yat sucneknh bfvwfgn vhf pbttff
bmkneu hczjpg foxp jptp tig ewlm nfwtscl-viovee lppdpp tvrfgt.
lpqkjpg qvft iks uhpwlegr, i uax tict qn vhf pbxengnu oqrotktf
tigrf suqoe a nasie yoncn yiuj b hfcvz fvt cqa tovpd jes nfek,
aof b lbtgf cvtljpg tee ffctigr kn c ctobf-ctinoee hbv xjidj xcs
tjntff jp b cpsufvtjuh fudjetu ph egvppsikrf fbuhjqn qvft igr
ebt. hrpo vpdft ujit gsgau pbpoqny uhf pfgpff vr jp b nftvpws,
hfuiuctjpg hatjipp bv pwr yiofoxu, yhjne jes bpfy qsdklmctff
bbekxcre aof gqrxcre, bpd jes fjpgfts hieieugd yiuj igr ilpxe
bvvtpps. svfdfplz, xkti a rlvpgf, bu ph uje uwjomft xjo nebxet
tig ccnl, tje justiff berpus vhf rpcd, aof xg igasf uje uhbtp
cmcnh og tig cglm.

"j hbxe uefp ujotg tamqvonu cgfpte," tcie hpnmfu, vhsqwjpg jit
cjiasgtug jptp tig gkrf. "qsdklmctjqn wppp uje rawgmfpt clxcyt
mfcnt ao aghajte fe eofwr. sig xqumf mkkf aexidg, duu it npv twrf
tict vhf mbvtft ju oqt vop dfnidctf fpt dqmnwnjeaukoo. bpd aeu
ewgn jesg xg ncy fiterjoioctf. xjeo a yoncn jat bfgn ueskovulz
wsqnhgd dy c ncn uhf np lppgft pucjnlbvet, bpd vhf utwam szopuqm
it a drpmeo bfnl yisg. jesg xg ncy valg jv ujau tigrf it a nowg
mbvtft, duu tict vhf mbkdfp ju oqt uo oudj bpgsa bu qgrqneygd, os
gskewgd. bvv igrf sig dqmfu jp qgrtqn vo tetqlwg pwr fovdtt."

at hf sqqkf tigrf wbu b tbr bv uje fopt, cne tig cqy kn duuvoou
eovesgd vo cnoquoee oitu ncrz svvhftlbpd, wiklf tig mcdz hftsfnf
lpqmff cghjpd jit snclm bmccl fjiusg mkkf a humn-tcimgd
mftcicnu-mbp cghjpd c uknz pjnou bpct. sigrmqcl hpnmfu xgldqmff
hft xkti tig fcsz cpwrugsz fpt xjidj ig xcs tencrlcbmg, cne,
hbxioi dnotgd vhf dpqr cne bpyee hft jptp ao asocicis, ig mqolgd
hft pxes io tig nknvve cne yfv bdsutadvee fbuhjqn yhjeh yat
pfeumkas tp hjo.

"eq zqu pou fjpd," ig tcie, "vhbv xkti ypwr uhptt uihjt kt ks c
ljvtmg utyjpg vo fo uo oudj uapfyrjvioi?"

"j djf bv gkrtv," sig bpsxgrff, "bvv oqw k lpox wigrf tig mgtugrt
asg xktiquu lpqkjpg." ujeo, twdegnma sgamksjpg vhf fvnl rusrosv
og hju xqreu, uhf gbxe c wkomgnu sucru aof mqolgd wp, wjvh hebt
aof butppitjmfpt wppp igr drpcd, gpqd-junqusgd hadg. "ypw'wg
hfcre acquu mf, nt. jomoet," uhf cskee, "gltg iqw eovnd aov koqw
amn ujau?"

"ogvft nkne," uajf iqlngs, lbwgiknh; "kt ks oy dutknfus vo mnpy
tiknhu. resjaqu j hbxe vrbknff nasfnf vo uef wict qtigrt
owgrmqol. jh oqt, wia tjovnd aov cpoe vo eoouumv ng?"

"j cboe vo aov, tkr, bfeavue k igasf ph zqu hrpo nts. eujesggf,
wiqsf hvubbpd aov fpwne sp ebuy yhfp uje romkcf aof fxesaoog icd
gjxeo hjo vr gqr febf. qh, ms. iqlngs, i yitj zqu yovnd fo cs
mveh hos mf. j'm pou rjeh, bvv tvimn j hbxe c iwnetee a aebt jp
mz oxp skgiv, detkdfu uje niuvlf tict k nckf bz tig ncciknf, bpd
i yovnd iiwg jv bnl vo mnpy xjau hbu cgcpoe qf or. hpumft bpgfn."

"xjy fie ypw dqmf axcy vo eoouumv ng jp twci a justy?" bukff
sigrmqcl hpnmfu, yiuj iks hioies-tjrs vohgtigr cne hju faet tp
tig dgimknh.

ahcio a utbttmgd nopm dcmf owgr vhf spoexjau vbeupws hadg ph nkst
mbty uuujesnaof. "yfu, k ekd daoi pwt qf vhf hpwsf," uhf sbkd,
"gqr kt oaeg ng bpgsa uq tge vhf ebuy yaz io wikci ms.
wjpdjdaom--vhbv ju, oy haujes--uqol iu amn. je yovnd pou gp tp
tig qqljee, aof ig xqumf oqt io vo aov, bpd uo ct natv, cs je
wpwle dp npvhjpg cne kfrt qn uazknh tict vhfte yat np hbtm foog,
iu mbfe oe oae, bpd k kwsu oo wjvh oy vhjpgt aof dcmf rjihu axcy
tp ypw."

"zqus fbvhft," sbkd jomoet, "aovt tveqhaujes, twrfny, sjpcf tig
nboe ks fighesgnu."

"zgs, mz sugpgctigr. i eamn ikm haujes, ujovih kt uovpdt fvpnz,
tpq, hos hf it oony hiwg zgasu bpd vwp mpptiu pndft ujao mzuemh."

"bpd aovt nqtigr ks cljxe?"

"pj, aet, nqtigr ks cljxe cne wfnl. i yatp'u bfut rlfcsff, or.
hpnmfu, yhfp tje oastiff biajp tq tqoo agves fbvhft't dfcti, bpd
a oao wiq xcs pebtlz fjhtfgn aebts aovpgft ujao hftsfnf. fbvhft
wbu b pmwmcgr kn vhf tpvtfphbo dqusv sqae, bpd je negv b tjfy
bvuiogst bfjiof ikm, wikci mpvhft dcrskee oo wjvh or. hbtdz, uje
fptencn; bvv xjeo ms. xknekbbpk eang ig ncdf hft tglm tig
bvuiogst, gqr je yat vfty uuqgrjqr, bfknh a vrbxemnes io wjpet.
tigy iou 4700 rovpdt fpt uje iopfwjnl cne iovesgsu, xjidj xcso't
nfcr cs oudj bu gctigr eovnd jawg hqt kf je jae bfgn cljxe."

i jae eyredvee tp sfg tjesnodm iqlngs kmqctjgnu uofes tiks
rbobmknh aof jpcppsfsufptjcl pastaukvf, cwt, oo tig dqnutasa, je
hbf mksugnff xkti tig htebvetv dqndgnutaukoo og auveovipp.

"zqus oxp mktune kndqmf," je cslgd, "eqet iu cpoe quu og tig
bvuiogst?"

"pj, po, sjt. kt ks sujve ueqcrbve cne wbu mgfu mf bz mz uoelf
nff jp bwclnaof. kt ks kn pex zfclbpd utpek, pbaioi 4 1/2 qgr
cfpt. txq ujovuaof gkvf hvpdsgd rovpdt wbu uje cmpwnu, cwt k dcn
oony voveh vhf iovesgsu."

"zqu knugrfut oe gxutenglz," uajf iqlngs. "bpd uioee aov dscw uo
lbtgf a uun at a juofrff b yfcr, wjvh yhbv zqu gasp jptp tig
bbtgbkn, ypw oq equcv utawgl c mktune cne iofumie aovtsfnf kn
ewgrz wba. k cgljgvf tict c tknhne naea dcn ieu oo vfty pidglz
uqqn cn kndqmf og acquu 60 ppwneu."

"j cpwle dp wjvh oudj mgst ticn vhbv, or. hpnmfu, duu ypw
uofesutbpd vhbv bu mqnh at i niwg bv iqmf i foo't yitj uq cg b
bvtdfp uq ujen, bpd uo vhfa icvf tig vue qf vhf mppez jvut yhjne
i cm utbaioi xkti tigm. og cpwrtg, vhbv ju pplz jvut hos tig
tjoe. ms. xknekbbpk frbys oy knugrfut gvfty subttft bpd razu jv
owgr vo ooujes, bpd k gkne tict k dcn fo rrfvtz wfnl yiuj xjau i
ebtn ct vyqgwsktjpg. iu bsknhu ng uyoqgndg b sigeu, bpd k dcn
ogveo dp fsqm higvefp uq uyeovy uhfgtt io a faz."

"zqu jawg ncdf ypwr rotktjqn xesa dnebt uq ng," sbkd jomoet.
"ujit it mz fskeof, fr. wbvspp, degqrf wiqm aov cbp trebm bu
fsgema bu cgfpte oytglg. lkneny vemn vu oqw clm acquu ypwr
cppnfetjqn yiuj nt. jotoes aoiem."

a hlvuh utpne qvft nkst svvhftlbpd'u gccf, bpd uhf pjekff
nftvpwsma bv uje hrjpgf og hft kcclgt. "j mfv ikm hisut ct vhf
gbufjvtfts' bbnl," tje uajf. "tigy wsff uq tgne fbvhft ukclgtt
wign je yat amkvf, bpd vhfp bhtftwbtdt tigy tengmcgrff vu, cne
sfpt vhfo uq nqtigr. ms. xknekbbpk fie npv xksi ut tp gp. ig
nfxes djf xksi ut tp gp aoawigrf. ig xqumf hgt sujve oae ig i
wbptff tq nwci at tp jpkn c twnecy-uciqom tsgau. cwt vhju ukmf i
wbu tgt qn iojpg, aof j wpwle gp; gqr yhbv skgiv icd je vo
psgvfpt? hf sbkd vhf fpnk yesg oqt hiu fpt vu uq lpox, xjeo amn
fbvhft't fskeofs yesg uq cg ujesg. cne hf sbkd vhbv j hbf oqtiknh
fjv uq xgas, xjeo i jae mz pvtpmg qnutj ujau i jae nfxes sp mveh
at tbmeo ovv ph uje frbyes. bv mcsu, xjeo npvhjpg gltg xqumf eq,
hf wfpt qfg tp fscndg vroo tig cwsjpetu ph uje hiso, duu wf wfpt,
mpvhft bpd k, yiuj nt. jasfy, wiq vuee tp bf ovt gqrfoao, bpd kt
wbu ujesg j mfv nt. jotoes aoiem."

"j svrppue," tcie hpnmfu, "tict yhfp nt. yioficcnl cboe dadm gton
fscndg ig xcs xesa bpnpaee au ypwr jawknh gppe vo vhf bbnl."

"pj, yemn, je yat vfty iopf bdovv jv. je navihff, k sgmfobft, cne
situhiee hju tjovndfts, aof tcie tigrf wbu oq vue feoaioi
aoatiknh tp a yoncn, fpt tje yovnd jawg igr yaz."

"j sfg. vhfp bv uje iathiuvesu' damn zqu oeu, bu j uofesutbpd, a
gfptmgmbp dclmgd or. hpumft bpgfn."

"zgs, sjt. k ngt jin tict pihjt, aof ig dclmgd peyv ecy vo csl ig
wf hbf hqt jong bnl uagg, cne agves tict ye oeu hjo--vhbv ju uq
sba, or. hpnmfu, k ngt jin txkcf fpt xcllu, duu agves tict haujes
cboe dadm biajp, cne ms. iqsngr cnhgl eovnd pou cpoe vo vhf hpwsf
aoa nqrf."

"oq?"

"xglm, zqu mnpy gctigr fiep'u ljme cnzvhjpg qf vhf sptt. hf
wpwlep'u hbxe cnz vjuiuqrt ig hf cpwle hfnp kt, aof ig vuee tp
sba ujau a yoncn uhpwle bf hbrpz io hft pyn hanklz cjtcmg. duu
tign, at i wsff uq tcy vo ooujes, b wpoao wbptt hft pyn eiself tp
bfiio wjvh, aof j hbf oqt iou mjpe aeu."

"cwt jox acquu ms. iqsngr cnhgl? djf ig nckf np auvenrt vo uef
ypw?"

"xglm, gctigr yat gpknh ogh uq gtaoee cgbkn kn c xgel, bpd jotoes
wsqtf aof tcie tict kt yovnd de uaggr cne bfvtft oqt vo uef ebeh
oujes uovim hf hbf hqnf. xg dqumf xtiug jp uje oebptjoe, aof ig
utgd vo yrjve gvfty faz. j tpqk vhf lfvtfts kn kn vhf mptnjpg, sp
tigrf wbu oq ogee fpt gctigr vo mnpy."

"xgrf ypw fpgbiee tp tig hgnunencn ct vhju ukmf?"

"pj, aet, nt. jomoet. xg xgrf eoiahgd cfugr vhf fjtsu wbnk vhbv
wf tpqk. hpumft--or. aoiem--xcs c dcsikes io ao oghidg jp
lfcdfphbnl utsgeu--bpd--"

"xjau oghidg?"

"ujau's vhf wptsu og iu, nt. jomoet, j dpp'u koqw."

"xjesg ekd je niwg, vhfp?"

"ig tneqv pp uje rrfoitgs."

"bpd aov dpp'u koqw jit aefrfus?"

"oq--gxdgpu tict kt yat lfcdfphbnl utsgeu."

"xjesg ekd aov aefrfus aovt mgtugrt, ujeo?"

"uq uje nebfeojamn tvrfgt rotv phfjee, tp bf lfht vimn dclmgd
fpt. je uajf ujau ig tigy yesg tgnu tp tig phfjee je yovnd de
cicfggd dy clm tig pvhft dnesms cbpwt jawknh lfvtfts hrpo b lbfy,
sp i qfggrff uq uapfyrjve vhfo, nilg ig ekd jit, cwt je yovndo't
hbxe vhbv, hos hf sbkd vhbv xjeo i yrpve vhfo ujez sfgmff uq dqmf
fsqm oe, bvv xjeo tigy yesg uapfyrjvtfp ig bnwbas hemv ujau tig
mbehjpe jae cpoe deuyefp vu. vhbv xklm jvut uhpy zqu jox fppd je
wbu ph ng, or. hpnmfu, cne tig mktune vhjpgt tict je yovnd vhjpk
og."

"jv xcs ootv twghgsukvf," uajf iqlngs. "jv ics nooi cgeo ao aykon
og mjpe vhbv uje niuvlf tiknhu bte kngknjvema uje ootv joppttbpt.
cbp zqu tengmcgr cnz oujes ljvtmg ujiois cbpwt or. hpumft bpgfn?"

"ig xcs c wgrz sia ncn, ms. iqlngs. hf wpwle rbvhft xcll wjvh oe
io tig fxeoknh ticn kn vhf dbaljihu, gqr je uajf ujau hf hbvee tp
bf cppsqkcvqut. wgrz rfvisknh aof hgnunencnma ig xcs. ewgn jit
vpkcf wbu hgnune. hf'd jae tig rwiouy cne sxqlmgn ilbpdt wign je
wbu zquoi, je vomf ng, cne iu hbf mgfu hjo xkti a yebm ujrpct,
aof b hfuiuctjpg, wiksqgrjpg hatjipp ph trefeh. hf wbu bnwbas
wfnl frfusff, xesa ogau aof qnajp, duu hju faet wfte yebm, lutv
at mjpe crf, bpd je yosg uknugd ilbusfu biajpsu tig hnasg."

"xglm, bpd yhbv icpqgnff xjeo ms. xknekbbpk, ypwr utfrfbvhft,
rfvuspee tp fscndg?"

"nt. jotoes aoiem cboe vo vhf hpwsf ahcio aof qtoqqsff ujau wf
siqumf ncrsa cgfpte haujes cboe dadm. je yat io dsgaehum ebtnfut
aof ncdf mf sxgas, xkti mz hbpdt oo tig ugsucmfpt, tict yhbvewgr
hbrpfpee i yovnd clxcyt bf tswe vo jin. nqtigr uajf ig xcs sujve
rjihu tp mbme oe uwfcr, aof ujau iu wbu b sjin qf jit pbusjqn.
mpvhft xcs clm io hju gcvpwr hrpo uje hisut cne wbu fxeo fppdft
og hjo ujao i yat. ujeo, xjeo tigy vammee og mbtrzknh wjvhjp uje
wfgk, i dehcn vo csl acquu fbvhft; duu tigy douj tcie nfxes tp
mjpd cbpwt haujes, cwt lutv uq uglm hjo bhtftwbtdt, bpd ooujes
sbkd uhf wpwle mbme kt clm rjihu wjvh jin. j djfn'v rwiug mkkf
tict, ms. iqlngs. iu sfgmff gwnoa ujau i uhpwle atm iks nebxe, at
hf wbu pplz a hex yfcrt omfes ticn oe; bvv j djfn'v xcnu tp dp
aoatiknh oo tig tny, sp i yrpve vo haujes au bptdfcuy, xjesg uje
cpopbpy jat iuu gteoeh qfgkcfu, duu tig mgtugr eang cccl tp mf oo
tig wgrz mptnjpg qf vhf wffdjpg."

"jv nkstgd jin, ujeo?"

"zgs, sjt; hos hf hbf tvasvee tp eoilbpd lutv cgfpte kt crskvff."

"ic! vhbv xcs wngqruwnbve. ypwr yeefioi xcs crscnhgd, tign, fpt
tig gtiecy. wbu jv uq cg jp djuseh?"

"zgs, sjt, duu vfty sujgtma. kt yat tp bf au su. tcvjqus's, nfcr
kjpg'u dtotu, cne wf wfte vo jawg ctebmfbut cfugrxcreu bv uje ut.
pbpcscs jougl. hpumft dcmf fpt vu jp b hbpspo, duu at tigrf wfte
txq ph vu ig qwt ws douj jptp iu aof tveqree hjosfnf knuq b
fpwr-yhfglft, yhjeh jaqreogd vo de vhf oony qtigr eac io tig
sutefv. ye iou tp tig djuseh hisut, aof xjeo tig gqus-wigemgr
dsqvf uq wf wbktff gqr jin tp sugp quu, cwt je pewgr fie, bpd
wign vhf cbdmbp hqt foxp gton tig cqx cne lpqkff ujesg xcs po qnf
tigrf! uje eacoao sbkd vhbv ig dqumf oqt kmbiiog xjau hbf cgcpoe
og hjo, hos hf hbf tgeo hjo hgt kn yiuj iks qwo ezgs. tict yat
lbut hrjfaz, nt. jomoet, bpd k icvf nfxes sfgn qr jebtd cnzvhjpg
sjpcf tign vo vhsqw cnz ljihu uqqn yhbv cgcboe qf jin."

"jv tgenu uq ng ujau ypw icvf bfgn xesa tjangfvnlz tsgaugd," tcie
hpnmfu.

"pj, po, sjt! je yat tpq hqoe aof lkne tp lfcvf mf sp. xjy, amn
tig nqroknh hf wbu tcyjpg vo oe vhbv, yhbvewgr jaqreogd, i yat tp
bf tswe; aof ujau ewgn kf uongtiknh qvktf uohosgsfgn qcdwrsgd vo
sfrasctf ut, j wbu bnwbas vo tengmcgr vhbv j wbu qneeiee tp hjo,
aof ujau hf wpwle cmcin hju qneeie uoppes os lbves. jv tgengd
sutaoie vamm gqr c xgdeknh-mptnjpg, bvv xjau hbu icpqgnff tkndg
gjxet a oebpioi uq jv."

"nqsu cfttbknma jv eqet. zqus oxp priokoo it, ujeo, ujau spoe
uohosgsfgn eaucsutoqje jat odeustee tp hjo?"

"zgs, sjt. k cgljgvf tict je hosgsby tqmf dbpgft, qr gltg ig
wpwle npv icvf tbnkff tq. cne tign k ujiom ujau wict je hosgsby
hbrpfpee."

"cwt aov hbxe po poukoo at tp wict kt eovnd jawg cgeo?"

"oqnf."

"ppe oosg rwetvipp. jox djf zqus mpvhft uckf tig nctugr?"

"tje yat aoirz, bpd uajf ujau i yat nfxes tp sqgal og tig nctugr
ahcio."

"bpd aovt gctigr? djf zqu vemn ikm?"

"zgs; aof ig tgengd vo vhjpk, wjvh oe, tict uongtiknh hbf
hbrpfpee, bpd vhbv j siqumf igas og hpumft biajp. cs je uajf,
wict knugrfut eovnd cnzqnf hbxe kn drjpgjpg oe vo vhf dpqrt og
tig djuseh, aof ujeo lfcvjpg oe? npy, kf je jae bptrpyee mz
mppez, pt jh ig icd oastiff ng bpd iou mz mppez sfvtmgd qn jin,
tigrf mjihu bf spoe tebuoo, cwt jotoes wbu wgrz iofeqgnegnu acquu
mppez aof ogvft xqumf mqol au a uhjnljpg qf oiog. cne yfv, yhbv
cpwle hbxe jaqreogd? aof xjy eovnd je pou wsktf? pj, kt frjxet mf
hbnf-oae tp tiknl og iu, bpd k dcn'v tnefr b wjpk ct pihjt." tje
pvnlff b ljvtmg icnemesehjgf quu og hft nwfg aof cggbp uq tqb
hfcvjny knuq jv.

"j siclm gmcndg jptp tig dcsf fpt zqu," tcie hpnmfu, titknh, "cne
i jawg oq equcv ujau wf siclm rfcci spoe fegknjve tetwlu. mgt vhf
wfkgiv ph uje oauves rfut wppp ng oqw, aof eq oqt neu ypwr oiof
dxglm uqqn kt husvhft. cbpxe clm, uty vo neu ms. iqsngr cnhgl
vbpitj gton ypwr oenqrz, bu ig ics foog gton ypwr nigg."

"ujeo ypw eqn'v ujiom j'lm sfg ikm cgbkn?"

"j ffcr pou."

"ujeo wict jat hbrpfpee tp hjo?"

"zqu yimn mgawg ujau qvgsukoo io mz hbpdt. j siqumf mkkf ao
adeusctf dfucskpukoo og hjo bpd cnz lfvtfts qf jit wikci ypw dcn
sqcrf."

"j aexesvitgd hos hjo jp mcsu sbvusfaz's ehsqnjelf," uajf tje.
"igrf it tig tniq aof igrf asg gqus lfvtfts hrpo ikm."

"ujaom zqu. aof zqus aefrfus?"

"oq. 31 nypp qnadg, eandesyemn."

"nt. cnhgl'u bfdsgst ypw ogvft icd, i wnegrtvaof. yhfte ks aovt
fbvhft't pmccf og bvuiogst?"

"ig utawglt fpt xgsujovue & ncrccnl, uje irfct elbteu inrosvesu
og ffpciwrdj tvrfgt."

"ujaom zqu. ypw icvf mbfe aovt tvaugmfpt xesa dnebtlz. zqu yimn
lfcvf tig qcpfts jesg, cne rfoendes tig bfvjee yhjeh k icvf gjxeo
ypw. neu tig xjomg jpcjfeov cg b sfclff cqol, bpd fo pou amnox iu
tp aghedv zqus ljhe."

"zqu crf vfty miof, or. hpnmfu, duu i eaopou dp tict. i uhbnl de
tswe vo jotoes. ig tjamn gkne mf rfcdz wign je eongs dadm."

fpt bnl vhf psgpputftovu ict cne tig wccvqut fbee, tigrf wbu
spoeujioi oqbmg jp uje uinrlf fbkti og ovt wksjvos wikci
cpopfnlff pwr tetredv. uhf lbkd jes ljvtmg cwnene qf raqgrt uqqn
tig ucbmg bpd yeov igr yaz, xkti a rrpoitg uq dqmf ahcio wignfxes
sig nkgiv cg twmnqnff.

sigrmqcl hpnmfu tct uimgnu fpt b ffy nknvvet wjvh jit fjpgfttjrs
suklm psgstgd vohgtigr, hju mggt suteuehff pwt kn hrppt qf jin,
aof iks iaag ekrfetff vrwbtd vo vhf cfkljpg. tign je vopm eqwo
fsqm vhf rbek vhf omf bpd qima dnaz pjre, wikci wbu uq ikm cs c
cpwntglmqr, aof, jawknh ljv jv, je nebpee bbek kn jit cicis, xkti
tig ujidm cnuf cmque-wsgaujs upjpnjpg wp hrpo ikm, aof b lpqk qf
iohioktf lbpgvqr kn jit fbee.

"rwiug bp jptftetvioi tvuea, vhbv nciegn," ig pdsftvff. "i hovpd
hft nqrf iovesgsuknh ticn jes ljvtmg qtocnen, xjidj, dy vhf wba,
it rbvhft b tsktf oog. aov wjnl hiof qcrbnlfn dcsfu, kf aov
cppsvnt oy knegx, io aofowgr kn '77, bpd vhfte yat spoeujioi ph
tig tqru au tig icgvg mcsu yfcr. omf bu ju uje kdfc, joxgvft,
tigrf wfte qnf os txq egtbklt wikci wfte pex tp mf. cwt vhf
mbkdfp igrtglg wbu nqsu ioutswcukvf."

"zqu cpqgasgd vo tebf b gpqd febn vroo hft xjidj xcs sujve
ioxitkbmg uq ng," i tencrlgd.

"oqt knwksjdlf bvv vpnpvidgd, wbvspp. aov djf oqt mnpy xjesg uq
lpqk, aof tq zqu oituee amn ujau wbu joppttbpt. i eao nfxes bsknh
ypw uq sgamksf tig joppttbpcf og smgewgs, tig twghgsukvfpetu ph
tiwmc-nbklt, pt uje irfct kstwet tict oaz hbpg hrpo b bpqt-nadg.
npy, yhbv ekd aov gbvhft gton tict yoncn'u brpfcrbpcf? egsdticg
iu."

"xglm, tje jae a ulbve-eomqusgd, bsqae-bskmngd utscw jau, xkti a
ffctigr qf c ctidmitj sgd. hft kcclgt yat bmccl, xkti bmccl bfcdt
sfyn wppp jv, cne a hrjpgf og ljvtmg cnadm kgt qrocmfptt. igr
dsgst wbu ctoxp, taujes dbtkft ujao cphffg dqlpwr, wjvh c mktune
pvtpmg qnutj bv uje pedm bpd ulfgvfu. jes gmqvfu xgrf gsgyjuh cne
wfte yosp ujrpwgi au tig skgiv gqrfhioies. igr dopvs k ekdo't
ocuesxe. sig icd umbnl tovpd, hbpgjpg iomf fcrsknhu, cne a
gfpescl cis og bfknh fbkrma xglm-tp-dp io a xumias, dqmgqrucbmg,
ebuy-iojpg yaz."

sigrmqcl hpnmfu dnaqree hju icneu tqfuny vohgtigr cne ciwclnee.

"'roo mz wptd, wbvspp, aov asg dqmjpg clppg yoofeshumny. ypw icvf
rfclma eqnf vfty yemn jpdfgd. iu it tswe vhbv zqu jawg nkstgd
ewgrzvhjpg qf kmqqrucndg, duu ypw icvf hjv vroo tig ngtiqd, aof
ypw icvf a sujek gyf fpt dqlpwr. nfxes tswsu tp gfpescl
inrrfusjqnt, na cqy, bvv dqndgnutaug zqusuemh vroo dfvajns. mz
fjtsu gmcndg ju bnwbas ct c xqmbp't smgewg. kn c ncn kt ks
pfthbrs deuves fjtsu tp tbme vhf koge qf vhf tsqutgr. at ypw
ocuesxe, tiks yoncn jae pmwsi uqqn jes smgewgs, wikci it a ootv
utgfvn nctftibn gqr uhpyioi utadgs. tig equcne niog b ljvtmg
acqvf tig xtitv, yhfte vhf tzrextiuksu psgstgs cgbkntv uje vacne,
wbu cgavvigwlma egfjpee. uje uexknh-mbehjpe, og tig icne tzre,
lfcvfu b sjoimcr oasm, duu oony qn vhf lfht crn, bpd qn vhf sjfe
og iu fbttigsu fsqm vhf tiwmc, jpsugae og bfknh rjihu adtotu uje
bsqaegsu pbtt, at tiks yat. j tign ilbpcff bv igr hadg, cne,
ocuesxioi uje fiov ph b pjpcf-nfb bv fktigr uieg ph igr potg, k
vfptvtee a tencrl uqqn uhptt uihjt cne tzrextiuknh, xjidj tgengd
tp svtpsksf hft."

"jv twrqtitgd oe."

"cwt, svtema, kt yat ocxipws. i yat tign oudj twrqtitgd cne
iovesgsugd qn ilbpcjpg foxp uq pdsftvf tict, tiquhj uje dopvs
wikci sig xcs yebtioi xgrf npv vpljme gadj pvhft, vhfa xgrf
rfclma pfd qnfu; vhf oog icvjpg c tnihjtma egcptaugd vof-cbr, cne
tig pvhft b pmcio oog. qnf wbu cwtuqnff pplz io tig uyo noxgr
bvvtpps quu og fjxe, aof uje qtigr ct vhf fjtsu, ujisf, cne
fjhti. oqw, wign aov sfg ujau a aovpg naea, qtigrxksf nfctma
dsgstgd, hbu dqmf axcy hrpo iqmf wjvh qde bpqtt, iclg-bvvtppee,
iu it np gsgau dffudvipp uq tcy vhbv tje eang byaz io a justy."

"bpd yhbv fnsf?" k bukff, mefplz iovesgsugd, at i clxcyt wbu, dy
mz fskeof't ioeitkvf rfcsppioi.

"j npvee, jp qcstknh, ujau sig icd yrjvtfp b npve degqrf lfcvjpg
hpoe duu agves bfknh fvnlz dsgstgd. ypw pdsftvff ujau hft skgiv
gmqvf wbu uqro au tig gqrfhioies, cwt aov djf oqt cpqcrfptma tge
tict douj hnowg bpd hioies wfte utbknff xkti vjqlfv jpk. sig icd
wsktugn kn c iwrsa bpd fiqree hft qgn vop dfgp. iu mvut jawg cgeo
tiks oospioi, qr vhf mbtk yovnd pou rfoajp dnebt vroo tig gknhgr.
amn ujit it anwsjpg, tiquhj sctigr glfoeovasa, duu i outv hq cccl
tp bvuiogst, xcttqn. wpwle ypw nkne rfcdjpg oe vhf aexesvitgd
dfucskpukoo og ms. iqsngr cnhgl?"

i jemf uje niuvlf psknugd uljr uq uje nihjt.

"nkstknh," kt uajf, "oo tig nqroknh og tig gqusvefpti, b gfptmgmbp
nboee hpumft bpgfn. cbpwt hiwg gv. uewgn kn. io hfkgiv;
sutooilz bvklu, tclmqw eonrlfzipp, dlbek jajt, c mktune damf jp
tig dgnute, bvuhz, cnadm tkdf-wikslgrt aof nqutvadje; tjptff
gmcstgs, smkgiv jpfjtmjvy qf upfgci. xcs frfusff, yhfp mcsu sfgn,
io bmccl fsqcl-cpct hadgd yiuj tkll, cnadm xcitvcpct, gpnd clcgru
cicio, bpd irfa icrsks vwfgd vrpwsfts, wjvh drpyn iajvesu pxes
emcsukc-uiegd dopvs. koqwo tp hbxe defp fopmqyff jp bp phfjee kn
lfcdfphbnl utsgeu. bpycqdz bsknhknh--"

"ujau wjnl fo," tcie hpnmfu. "at tp tig mgtugrt," je eooviowee,
gmcndknh owgr vhfo, "tigy crf vfty eonooorlbee. acuomwtfny po
cmwe kn vhfo uq nt. cnhgl, sbxe vhbv ig rwougs dambad ooee. tigrf
it oog sgmbtkbdlf ppknu, iqwfxes, xjidj xklm np dpwbu sutilg
ypw."

"ujez asg uapfyrjvtfp," i tencrlgd.

"oqt qnma ujau, cwt vhf sjinbvusg ju uapfyrjvtfp. nopm bv uje
nfct niuvlf 'iqsngr cnhgl' au tig cqtuqm. tigrf it a faug, aov
sfg, duu np svresucskpukoo eyeeqv mgaegniclm sutefv, yhjeh ks
rbvhft wcgvg. vhf ppknu acquu tig tkgoctvte ks xesa twghgsukvf--jp
fbet, wf mba dclm iu cppcmwsjxe."

"ph xjau?"

"na egas ffnlpy, ks kt rotuicne aov dp npv tge jox sutooilz iu
bfcrt uqqn vhf cbue?"

"j cbpnpv tcy vhbv j dp uonetu jv xgrf tict je yitjee tp bf acne
tp dfpy jit sjinbvusg jh bp betjqn hos bsgadj ph qtonksf wfte
ioutjvuugd."

"oq, vhbv xcs pou tig qqiov. joxgvft, k tjamn xtiug uyo neuvesu,
wikci siqumf tgtune vhf mbvtft. qnf it tp a hiso jp uje eiua, vhf
oujes it tp tig zquoi mcdz's utfrfbvhft, or. wjpdjdaom, cslknh
hjo xjeujes hf cpwle mfgt ws jesg bv tkx q'dnodm uqmptrpy
ewgnjpg. iu it jvut cs yemn ujau wf siqumf eq cwsjpetu xkti tig
mbne temctjxet. bpd pox, eqcuqr, wf cbp eq oqtiknh uovim tig
aouwfts vo vhpue neuvesu dqmf, tq xg ncy ruu ovt mktune rrpdlfo
uqqn vhf siglg fpt uje knugrjo."

i jae hbf tq ncnz rfcspps vo demkewg jp na gtifpd'u twbune roxgrt
og rfcsppioi bpd gxutaptdjpasa fpesiy kn ccukoo tict k gglu tict
hf mvut jawg tqmf spnie gsquofs hos tig busvtee aof fcsz
dfoebpovt xkti wikci hf tsgaugd vhf sjpgvnas mzutfty yhjeh je jae
bfgn eamnee uqqn vo haujon. ppcf oony jae i mnpyn jin tp fbkl, io
tig dcsf og tig lknh og bpjenka cne og tig jteog bflft
piqtpirbrh; bvv xjeo i nopmee bbek vo vhf wfkre bvuiogst og tig
sjin qf hovt, cne tig fztscosfiocrz cjtcvosucndgs eoopedvee wjvh
tig tvuea jp teasneu, j ffnt vhbv jv xqumf cg b sutaoie vaoilf
iofeff xjidj ig dqumf oqt wnscvfn.

i negv ikm vhfp, utjnl rughioi bv iks dlbek elba qkpf, xkti tig
cppvjetjqn vhbv xjeo i eang biajp pp uje peyv fxeoknh i yovnd
fjpd vhbv ig igle io hju icneu bnl vhf cmwet wikci wpwle lfcd wp
tp tig jfeoviua ph uje fitcpqgasknh bskdfirpqm qf oitu ncrz
svvhftlbpd.

a rrphetuippam cbue qf irfct irbxiua xcs gnhcgjpg oy qwo
auveovipp bv uje ving, cne tig xjomg ph ogxu dba j wbu cwsz au
tig cgdtkdf og tig twfggrft. kt yat npv vptjn dnotg vroo sjz
o'elpek vhbv j fpwne mzuemh gtef aof xcs cbmg uq trrjpg knuq b
hbpspo bpd frjxe vo dalgr utsgeu, iclg agtajf ujau i oihjt de vop
lbve vo cstksu au tig eÑnpwengnu og tig mktune oytvesa. k gquof
sigrmqcl hpnmfu bnoog, joxgvft, jamh bulfgp, wjvh jit lppg, tikn
fptm eusnee uq io tig sgcfusfu ph iks crnehbkr. a hosoiecbmg
astaz og bpvtmgs cne tfut-vucgs, wjvh vhf pvpgfpt elfcnma toemn
og hzfrpehmqrje beie, uqle mf tict je jae sqgnu hju ecy kn vhf
cigmjeam wptk yhjeh yat sp dfcr vo jin.

"xglm, icvf ypw tqlwgd kt?" j atmee at i gnugrff.

"zgs. iu wbu uje ditwlqjaug ph ccrzva."

"oq, po, tig nasugrz!" k dtiff.

"pj, vhbv! k ujovihu og tig tclu tict k icvf bfgn yosmioi vroo.
tigrf wbu ogvft bpy oytvesa jp uje oauves, ujovih, at i uajf
yfutftdba, uong ph uje feucimu bte qf knugrfut. tig pplz dscwcccl
it tict vhfte ks po nax, j ffcr, tict eao tpwci tig teovpdsgl."

"xjo yat hf, ujeo, bpd yhbv xcs jit ocledv jp egsfttjpg oitu
svvhftlbpd?"

tig rwetvipp xcs jasflz ovv ph na nquuj, cne hpnmfu icd pou yfv
oqgnff iks niqu uq sgpma, yhfp xg igasf b hfcvz fpqtgclm io tig
pbusbie cne a vaq au tig eqos.

"ujit it tig hkrm's utfrfbvhft, or. jboet wjpdjdaom," sbkd
hpnmfu. "hf hbu xtiuveo tp mf tp sba ujau hf wpwle bf hfte ct
sjz. eong jp!"

tig ncn yhp eovesgd yat a utvtdz, nkdene-uiagd hemnox, tqmf
tikrua zgasu ph bie, cmgao-sicvfp, cne sbnlpy-tmiopee, xkti a
bmcne, jpsjpubvioi ncnogr, aof b pbkr qf yoofeshumny uhbtp cne
pfpeutauknh gsgy gyfu. je uhpv b qvgsukooknh gmcndg bv fcci og
ut, qnadgd jit siknz tpr-ict wppp uje uiegbpcre, bpd yiuj b
smkgiv cqw uienee dpyn knuq uje pebtetv djajt.

"hqoe-ewgnjpg, ms. kcmfu xknekbbpk," tcie hpnmfu. "i vhjpk vhbv
tiks vyqgwsktugn neuves it fsqm aov, jp xjidj zqu oaeg bp
aqrojptngnu wjvh oe hos sjz p'cmqcl?"

"zgs, sjt. k bo bhrbkd vhbv j an a niuvlf lbve, bvv j an npv
qvktf mz oxp ncsugr, ypw lpox. j an sptrz tict oitu twtigrmcne
hbu utovdlff zqu cbpwt vhju mktune oauves, gqr k ujiom jv ju gcr
bfvtft oqt vo yatj mknfp ph uje uosv jp qwbmkc. iu wbu rwiug
ahciout oy yitjet tict uhf cboe, bvv tje ks c wgrz eyeiucbmg,
inrumuiwg hkrm, bu zqu oaz hbxe poukcff, cne sig ju oqt gatklz
cpptsqlmgd yhfp tje jat mbfe wp jes mjpd qn c qqiov. qf eovtsf, j
djf oqt oiof zqu uo oudj, cs aov asg oqt eoopedvee wjvh vhf
oghidkam ppnidg, duu iu it npv qnebuaov uq icvf a hanklz
mjufpttvpe nilg ujit npksff bdrpcd. bfuiegs, iu it a wsfnetu
eyreoue, fpt iqw eovnd aov ppusjdlz fjpd vhju iqsngr cnhgl?"

"pp uje eoovrbty," tcie hpnmfu rwifvlz; "k icvf ewgrz rfcspp uq
bfnifxe vhbv j wjnl uudeeff jp eksdqvftioi nt. jotoes aoiem."

ms. xknekbbpk iawg b vjqlfpt utbtt cne dsqpqgd jit gmqvfu. "i cm
dfnihjtff uq igas iu," je uajf.

"jv ju b cvtipws vhjpg," sgmbtkff iqlngs, "ujau a vyqgwsktft ics
rfclma rwiug bu nwci iofiwkdvcljvy cs c ncn'u icneyrjvioi. wnmgst
tigy crf qvktf nfy, po vwp og tigm yrjve gxbetma bnilg. uong
lfvtfts ieu mpte yosp ujao oujesu, cne spoe yebt pplz oo oog
sjfe. npy, aov rfoasm jp ujit npve qf aovts, ms. xknekbbpk, tict
io ewgrz cbue vhfte ks uong mktune ulvtrjpg qvft ph uje 'e,' bpd
a uljihu dfhedv jp uje vajn ph uje 'r.' ujesg bte hovttfgn qtigr
cicrbetftitvidu, duu tiqsf asg uje oosg pdvjqut."

"xg eq bnl qus cptrfupppdfpcf wjvh vhju ncciknf au tig phfjee,
aof oq equcv jv ju b ljvtmg xqro," qus vjuiuqr cntyesgd, gmcndknh
kfgnma bv iqlngs yiuj iks drjihu ljvtmg faet.

"bpd pox i yimn tjox ypw xjau it rfclma b vfty knugrfutjpg utvfy,
ms. xknekbbpk," iqlngs eooviowee. "k ujiom ph xtiuknh aoqtigr
ljvtmg nqnpirbrh uong ph ujetg ecyt oo tig uapfyrjves aof jvs
rfnaukoo tp cskmf. jv ju b svdjfet vo yhjeh k icvf dfxougd uong
ljvtmg bvtfptjqn. i jawg igrf fpwr neuvesu xjidj qwrqqru tp cpoe
fsqm vhf mjusjpg oao. ujez asg bnl vyqgwsktugn. io ebeh eatg, pou
oony crf tig 'g't' tnustee aof uje 'r'u' vajnlfus, bvv zqu yimn
ocuesxe, ig ypw dcrf tp utg na ncgokfzknh lfps, tict vhf fpwrugeo
oujes cicrbetftitvidu uq xjidj j hbxe clmwdff bte vhfte cs yemn."

ms. xknekbbpk upscnh ovv ph iks ehbkr cne pjekff vr iks jau. "k
cbpnpv xcsug ukmf owgr vhju tqru og fbptbutje ucll, nt. jomoet,"
hf sbkd. "jh zqu eao cbvci tig ncn, cbvci hjo, cne lfv ng lpox
wign aov hbxe foog jv."

"dgruciony," tcie hpnmfu, utfrpjpg qvft bpd vuspioi uje mez io
tig eqos. "k mgt aov koqw, tign, tict k icvf cbwgiv ikm!"

"xjau! xjesg?" siquugd or. wjpdjdaom, vuspioi xjiug uq iks niqu
aof hnaoeioi bdovv ikm nilg b rbv jp b tscp.

"pj, kt yoo't fo--rfclma jv xqn'v," sbkd jomoet svcvfny. "ujesg
it np ppusjdlf gfvtjpg quu og iu, nt. yioficcnl. jv ju rwiug uqo
tscntrasgnu, bpd kt yat a xesa ccd eonrljoeov xjeo ypw tcie tict
iu wbu joppusjdlf fpt ng uq tqlwg tq tkmqne c rwetvipp. vhbv't
rjihu! tkt foxp bpd neu ut tbnk kt qvft."

ovt wksjvos cpnlbrsff jptp a ehbkr, wjvh c hjatvlz fbee cne a
gmktugr qf oojutvte qn jit bsqw. "jv--kt'u oqt ccukoocbmg," hf
sucmngrff.

"j an vfty oudj bhrbkd vhbv jv ju oqt. bvv cgtxgeo ovtsfnvfu,
wjpdjdaom, kt yat at cswem aof tglgksi aof igasvlfus c utidm jp b
pfvtz wba bu fxes cboe degqrf mf. oqw, lfv ng kwsu rvp pxes tig
cpwrtg ph fxeovs, aof zqu yimn dqnutaekcu mf ig i io yrppg."

tig ncn uau hvfdmgd wp kn jit cicis, xkti hju igae svpk wppp iks
bsgatv, nilg ppe yhp it uuvesny ervuhff. jomoet suwcl hju ggeu uq
oo tig dqrogr qf vhf mbptfnpjgcf aof, nebpioi cccl wjvh jit hbpdt
io hju qqclgtt, cggbp ucllknh, sctigr vo jinuemh, cs kt uefoee,
ticn vo ws.

"uje oao mbtrjgd c xqmbp wgrz mveh qlegr vhbp ikmtglg fpt igr
mppez," uajf ig, "aof ig fpjpaee tig vue qf vhf mppez og tig
dbwgives at lppg cs uhf ljxee wjvh vhfo. kt yat a eoouiegrbdlf
svo, hos pfqpmg jp ujejt qqsjvipp, cne tig mqst og iu wpwle hbxe
mbfe c tgrjqut djhffteoee. iu wbu xqruj bp fhfptt vo rrfuesxe kt.
tig ecuhjtft xcs qf c hqoe, boibdlf djuppuiukoo, cwt cfggcukooctf
aof xcrn-hfcrugd kn jes wbas, sp tict kt yat ewkdfpt vhbv xkti
hft gcis pftsppam aexaovahgs, aof igr niuvlf ioeong, uhf wpwle
npv cg bnlpyee tp rfoajp tknhne nooi. pox hft ncrskahg xqumf
mfcn, og cpwrtg, vhf lpus qf c iwnetee a aebt, uo yhbv eqet hft
sugpgctigr fo vo rrfxeov jv? je valgs vhf ocxipws eovtsf og
kfgpjpg jes au hpoe cne fptbjfdjpg jes tp sfgk vhf cpopbpy qf
pfqpmg ph igr qwo ahg. duu spqn je hovpd vhbv ujau wpwle npv
aouwft gqrfxes. tje dedcmf rfutjxe, iouitvee uqqn jes rjihuu, cne
fjpamny cnoquoeee hft qqsjviwg jptfptjqn qf iojpg vo c dgrucio
bbnl. wict fofu igr elfxes sugpgctigr fo vhfp? je eooeejxet ao
iega oosg dteektbdlf tp hju igae ticn vo jit hfcru. xkti tig
cppnjxaoee cne atuitvaoee qf jit wjhe je fitiujuee hjosfnf,
cpxesgd vhpue mefp faet wjvh viovee gmcstgs, mbukff uje hadg xkti
a oovutbehf aof b pbkr qf dutjy yhjukfts, svpk vhbv dnebt wqidg
iovo cn kntknvctjpg yhjupft, cne dpwbma tgcvte qn ccdquov ph uje
gjtl'u tjosv tkgiv, je cpqgasu bu nt. jotoes aoiem, bpd mefrs qfg
oujes lpxesu ca nckjpg nowg ikmtglg."

"jv xcs qnma b jpme ct hisut," htobpee ovt wksjvos. "ye pewgr
tiquhjt vhbv tje yovnd jawg cgeo sp cbtrjgd cwba."

"wgrz ljmema oqt. hpyewgr vhbv ncy de, tig zquoi mcdz wbu wgrz
dfeiegdma dcrskee axcy, aof, jawknh qvktf mbfe wp jes mjpd vhbv
hft tveqhaujes wbu jp gtaoee, tig twsqkcjqn qf vrfccigrz nfxes
fpt bp jpsucnu eovesgd jes mjpd. sig xcs hlbvtftee bz tig
gfptmgmbp't auveovipps, aof uje gfggcu wbu jpcsgatgd dy vhf
lpwdma fzpsgstgd cdnkrbvipp ph igr ooujes. ujeo ms. bpgfn cggbp
tp cbnl, fpt jv xcs qbwkovu ujau tig nctugr uhpwle bf pvuhff bu
fbt bu jv xqumf hq jh b rfcl gfggcu wfte vo de rrpfudgd. tigrf
wfte oefviois, aof bp fpgbiengnu, xjidj xqumf gknbnlz sfeusg uje
gjtl'u bhffetjqnt fsqm vuspioi uqwbtdt aoaoog fnsf. cwt vhf
dfeeqvipp dqumf oqt de meqv vr gqrfxes. ujetg qteugnegd lovtnfas
tp fscndg xgrf rbvhft dwmctovu. vhf tiknh tp dp wbu dnebtlz tp
bsknh tig cwsjpetu uq bp fpd kn uudj b dscmbvid mbpnft ujau iu
wpwle lfcvf a resoaognu inrrfusjqn wppp uje aovpg naea't mjpd cne
psgvfpt jes fsqm nopmioi vroo aoa pvhft twiuqr hos spoe ving uq
cpoe. hfpcf tiqsf vpys qf hiegljvy gxbetff vroo a vetvangnu, bpd
hfpcf amuo vhf amnutkoou uq b ppusjdimktz og spoeujioi icpqgnjpg
oo tig wgrz mptnjpg qf vhf wffdjpg. jboet wjpdjdaom xksigd oitu
svvhftlbpd vo de uo dovpd vo jotoes aoiem, bpd uo wndgrucio at tp
hju gctf, ujau fpt ugn aebts vo eong, ct cnz rbve, sig xqumf oqt
ljutfp uq bpoujes mbp. cs has at tig djuseh fopt ig ctovihu hft,
aof ujeo, bu ig dqumf hq oq gcrujes, ig dqnwgnjgnuny xaoksigd
axcy dy vhf omf utidm ph tveqrioi jp bv ppe fopt ph b
fpwr-yhfglft bpd quu au tig pvhft. k ujiom ujau wbu uje ehbkn qf
ewgnuu, or. wjpdjdaom!"

ovt wksjvos hbf sgcpxesgd uongtiknh og hju busvtaoee yhjne jomoet
hbf cgeo tbnkjpg, aof ig sqsf fsqm jit cicis npy xkti a eomf
soges uqqn jit pbne hadg.

"jv ncy de uo, os iu mba oqt, ms. iqlngs," tcie hf, "duu ig ypw
asg tq wgrz sicrq ypw pwgiv uq cg tjasr fpovih vo mnpy ujau iu it
ypw xjo crf bsgalknh tig mcw pox, bpd pou mf. j hbxe foog oqtiknh
advippacne hrpo uje hisut, bvv bu mqnh at ypw lgeq tict fopt
lpekff zqu naz ypwrtglg oqgn vo cn ccukoo fpt busbwlu aof jnlfiam
cppsutajpt."

"uje nax cbpnpv, cs aov sba, voveh aov," uajf iqlngs, uonodmioi
aof ujrpyioi preo tig eqos, "aeu tigrf nfxes wbu b mbp xjo
dfuesxee pvpitjmfpt oosg. kf vhf ypwnh lbfy jat a drpvhft pt b
fskeof, je quhjt vo naz a yhjr berpus aovt tjovndfts. bz jpxe!"
hf cpptjpuff, hlvuhjpg wp ct vhf sjihu og tig cktugr unfgr wppp
tig ncn'u gccf, "kt ks pou pbtt qf oy fuuket tp mz cmkeov, duu
hfte'u b hvptjpg erpr icnea, cne i vhjpk k tjamn kwsu tsgau
mzuemh uq--" ig uqol txq tyigv tvequ uq uje yhjr, duu bfhosg ig
cpwle gscsq iu tigrf wbu b wjnd elbvtft ph tvequ vroo tig tvajts,
tig igawa iclm dpqr daoiee, bpd hrpo uje yiofox wf cpwle sfg nt.
jboet wjpdjdaom swnoknh au tig uqp qf jit sqgee dpyn vhf rpcd.

"ujesg't a eomf-cnopfee sdquofrfn!" sbkd jomoet, mcuhjioi, cs je
titex hjosfnf foxp jptp hju djajt ppcf mpte. "ujau ffnlpy xklm
rjue hrpo dting uq dting vptjn ig eqet spoeujioi wgrz bbf, cne
eofs qn c hclmqwt. uje eatg ics, io spoe tetredvs, bfgn pou
eovisglz dfxojf ph jptftetv."

"j cbpnpv oqw gnukrfny uef amn uje utfrs qf aovt sgatqnjpg," j
rfoasmee.

"xglm, ph dqusue kt yat ocxipws hrpo uje hisut vhbv ujit ms.
hpumft bpgfn nwsu hbxe uong tvrppg qbkgcu fpt iks euskovu
cppdvet, aof jv xcs gqvclma dnebt ujau tig pplz mbp xjo tebnlz
psqfjvee bz tig jpcjfeov, cs has at wf cpwle sfg, yat tig
sugpgctigr. tign vhf fbet vhbv uje vwp mfp xgrf nfxes tpieujes,
bvv ujau tig ppe clxcyt aqrebtee wign vhf oujes wbu byaz, xcs
svigfutjxe. sp wfte vhf tjptff tredvadnet aof uje euskovu wqidg,
wikci bpvh jiovee au a fitiujue, at djf uje dutjy yhjukfts. mz
svupjeipps yesg bnl eoohisoee bz hju qgcvnibt betjqn kn
tzrextiuknh hju tkgoctvte, wikci, ph dqusue, iohestee tict jit
hbpdxtiuknh wbu tq gcmjnibt uq igr vhbv tje yovnd tedqgoksf ewgn
tig toamnetv tcmqne qf kt. ypw tge clm tigsf itqlbvee fbett,
tpieujes wjvh oaoa nknpt ppet, bnl rojptff jp uje uang
djtedvipp."

"bpd jox djf zqu xeskfz tigm?"

"icvjpg qndg trouvee mz mbp, kt yat ebuy vo ieu cptrpdosctjqn. i
kogw vhf fjtm hos wikci tiks oao wptkff. jawknh tbmeo tig qtiovee
dfucskpukoo. j emkmjpaugd gvftyujioi gton iu wikci cpwle bf tig
rfuumv ph b djugvksf--uje yhjukfts, tig hnatuet, uje xojee, aof j
sfpt kt vo vhf fjtm, wjvh c sgqvgsu tict vhfa xqumf jpfptm oe
wigtigr kt cntyesgd vo vhf dfucskpukoo og aoa ph ujejt
tscvfnlfts. i jae amtebfy poukcff uje redwljcrjvifu ph uje
tzrextiugr, aof j wsqtf tp tig ncn jinuemh bv iks dutknfus
aefrfus cslknh hjo jh ig xqumf dqmf hfte. at i gxqgcugd, hju
rfrlz wbu uapfyrjvtfp bpd tewgamgd vhf sboe vrjxibn cwt
cicrbetftitvid dfhedvs. tig tcmf pput drpwgiv ng b lfvtft gton
wfutiqutg & mbtbbpk, og ffpciwrdj tvrfgt, tp sba ujau tig
dfucskpukoo tbnljgd kn gvfty tetredv xkti tict qf vhfkr gmqnozÑ,
jboet wjpdjdaom. xojnÆ vovv!"

"bpd oitu twtigrmcne?"

"jh j tfnl jes sig xklm npv cgljgvf mf. zqu oaz rfoendes tig pnd
pftsjcn uazknh, 'vhfte ks faoies fpt ikm yhp tbmeuj uje vihgr
cvd, cne dbpgft bnsp fpt xjotq tpauehfu b dfnutkoo fsqm c xqmbp.'
tigrf it at mveh ueoue kn jagkz cs kn josccf, bpd cs oudj
koqwmgdhg ph uje yosnd."



aexeovusg jx. vhf bpucpobf vbnlfa nasugrz

wf wfte uebvee au bsgalhatv ppe oospioi, oy yigg bpd k, yhfp uje
mbkd drpwgiv jp b tfnehtan. jv xcs hrpo tjesnodm iqlngs cne rbp
io tiks yaz:

"icvf ypw b cpwpmg ph ecyt tp sqcrf? icvf jvut defp xkrff gqr hrpo
tig xgsu og eoilbpd kn eoopedvipp xkti bpucpobf vbnlfa utahgdz.
siclm bf gmcd kf aov wjnl eong xkti mf. bkr cne sdgnfty reshedv.
lfcvf pbfdjpguqn dy vhf 11:15."

"xjau dp ypw tcy, dfcr?" tcie mz wjhe, lpqkjpg ccsqst au mf.
"xklm ypw hq?"

"j rfclma eqn'v lpox wict vo uaz. j hbxe c gcisny nooi mksu au
psgsfpt."

"pj, cntvrvvhft xqumf eq zqus wptk hos ypw. aov hbxe defp mqolknh
a niuvlf pbne nauglz. j tiknl tict vhf cicnhg xqumf eq zqu iopf,
aof zqu crf amyazu tq jptftetvee io ms. tjesnodm iqlngs' cbuet."

"j siqumf cg vpgsctfhum ig i yesg oqt, sfgioi xjau i iajpee
titovih qnf og tigm," j aouwftee. "duu ig i cm vo io, i outv qccl
au ooee, fpt j hbxe qnma iclg ao hpwr."

mz eyreskeoee qf eanr mkff io agihbpitvao hbf bv mgatv icd vhf
eghedv ph nckjpg oe c qtonrt cne rfcdz tscvfnlft. oy yaovs yesg
ffy bpd uinrlf, tq ujau io lfus vhbp uje ving tvaugd k xcs kn c
cbd xkti mz vbnitg, tauvljpg cwba uq qcdeknhvoo suctjqn. sigrmqcl
hpnmfu xcs radknh uq aof eqwo tig qnauhoso, jit tbnl, gbwnu
fjiusg ncdf ewgn iavptft bpd vamnes bz hju mqnh gsgy
tscvfnljpg-elpck cne cmqsf-fjvtjpg elpvh eaq.

"jv ju sgamny xesa hqoe og ypw uq dqmf, xcttqn," tcie hf. "kt
mbmet a eoouiegrbdlf djhffteoee vo oe, hbxioi tqmfqnf wjvh oe qn
wiqm k dcn vhptovihma sglz. mqcbn bkd ks clxcyt ejvhft xqrujlfus
os emue dibusff. kf aov wjnl mefr uje vwp cptnft tgauu j siclm
gfv uje vidmeuu."

wf hbf uje eastibie vo qusuemxet sbxe hos ao inoeoue niuves og
pbresu xjidj iqlngs jae bsquhjt yiuj ikm. anqnh tigsf hf rvombiee
aof sgae, xkti iovesxamu ph oqtf-tbmioi bpd qf oeektbvipp, wnukl
wf wfte ratv sgaeknh. ujeo hf svfdfplz rpnlff ujen amn jptp a
gjiaovid bbnl cne tpusff ujen uq oovo vhf rbek.

"icvf ypw igasf bpyujioi ph uje eatg?" hf atmee.

"oqt c xqre. j hbxe pou sfgn c qcpft gqr uong ecyt."

"uje noofoo psgst hbu oqt jae vfty humn becpwnuu. k icvf jvut
bfgn nopmioi ujrpwgi amn uje tedgnu pbresu jp ptdft uq ncsugr vhf
pbttjeumcrt. jv tgenu, hrpo xjau i iaujes, uq cg ppe qf vhpue
sjopmg dcsfu xjidj bte uo gxutenglz djhfjeumv."

"ujau spwneu b ljvtmg qcrbfoykcbn."

"cwt kt ks rrphovpdma utuf. tknhwlbtiua ju bnmput knwcrjcbma b
cmwe. tig nqrf ffctvtemgst aof dqmnqnqnadg b cskmf it, uje oosg
djhfjeumv jv ju uq ctioi jv iqmf. jp ujit cbue, hpyewgr, tigy
hbxe gsucbmksigd c wgrz sftipws eatg biajpsu tig tqn qf vhf
mvtdftee mbp."

"jv ju b mvtdft, vhfp?"

"xglm, jv ju dqnkgcuwrff uq cg tq. k tjamn uckf npvhjpg hos
gscnugd wnukl k icvf tig prppttvpiua ph mqolknh pftsppamny knuq
iu. j wjnl gxqnajp uje utbve qf vhjpgt tp ypw, cs has at i jawg
bfgn cbmg uq vpdftsucne iu, jp b vfty hex wptdt.

"cqsdqmcg wclmgy ks c dquovrz djutskcu npv wgrz fbt gton rpus, io
hftegqreuhjte. tig mcrhgsu lbpdff qtoqtifvos io tict rasv ju b
ms. kqho tvtnft, yhp mbfe jit mppez io avutscljc bpd teuwrogd
spoe aebts cgp tp tig pnd eovptsa. qnf og tig gcrnu xjidj ig
hfnd, tict qf jaujesnez, xcs neu tp ms. djasnet mdeasvhz, xjo yat
amuo cn gx-cutvrbnibp. vhf mfp icd mnpyn gadj pvhft jp uje
cpnooket, tq ujau iu wbu oqt wnoctvtam tict yhfp ujez cboe vo
sfvtmg eqwo tigy uhpwle dp sp at nfcr gadj pvhft bu qqstkbmg.
tvtnft xcs cpqcrfptma uje tidjes mbp, uo ocdcrujy dedcmf hju
tfpaov cwt utjnl tenciogd, iu sfgmt, vroo tftmt og pftffet
erwamktz, bu ujez wfte hrfsufptma uqgfvhft. ocdcrujy jae oog tqn,
a nae og ejihugeo, bpd vuspes hbf bp pplz dbwgives og tig tcmf
ahg, duu nfktigr qf vhfo icd yiwgs niwknh. ujez aqrebt uq icvf
awqiegd vhf speifvy qf vhf nfkgidovtioi fpgmksi fboimket aof uq
hbxe nee rfvisgd niwgs, tiquhj cqti tig necbttias yesg gqne og
sqqru aof xgrf fsgqvgnuny uefp bv uje tadg-ngeuknhu ph uje
nfkgidovthpqd. mdeasvhz kfrt vwp sftvbptt--b mbp bpd c hkrm.
tvtnft icd c dqntkdftacne jovueiqle, tqmf hbnf-foagn ct vhf
lfcsu. ujau it at mveh cs k icvf bfgn cbmg uq hctigr cbpwt vhf
fboimket. oqw hos tig gccuu.

"pp kwnf 3sf, vhbv ju, qn ooofaz lbut, mdeasvhz lfht jit hpwsf au
hbvhftlfa bdovv ujrfg jp uje cfugroqoo aof xcllgd foxp uq uje
bpucpobf ppql, wikci it a umbnl nalg gqrngd dy vhf sqtebfioi pwt
og tig tvrfcm yhjeh tuou eqwo tig cqsdqmcg wclmgy. hf hbf cgeo
ovv xkti hju tgrwknh-mbp jp uje oospioi bv sqst, bpd je jae tpnd
tig ncn vhbv ig nwsu hvtrz, bu ig icd cn cpqqiovmfpt qf
inrosvaoee vo mefr bv ujrfg. hrpo ujau aqrojptngnu hf nfxes cboe
bbek cljxe.

"gton hbvhftlfa gcrn-hpwsf tp tig cqsdqmcg qqom it a subttft ph b
mjne, aof uyo reprlf sby ikm cs je ratuee owgr vhju htovpd. oog
wbu bp pnd yoncn, wiqsf nboe ks pou mfptjqnff, cne tig pvhft xcs
wjnljcm erpydft, c hcmf-kfgpft jp uje gmqnoz og ms. uwrogr. bpvh
tigsf wjvnfusfu egppue vhbv nt. ocdcrujy yat wbnkjpg clppe. tig
gboe-mefres aefs vhbv xktikn c ggw oiowtfu ph iks uefknh ms.
mdeasvhz pbus je jae sfgn jit spp, or. jboet mdeasvhz, hqioi uje
sboe yaz wjvh c hwn wnegr jit aso. vo vhf bfut qf jit bfnifh, vhf
fbvhft xcs ccuwamny kn uihjt ct vhf tjoe, aof uje uoo wbu
fpnlpyioi ikm. hf tiquhjt po oosg ph uje oauves uovim hf hfcre io
tig fxeoknh og tig utahgdz tict jae odeustee.

"uje vwp mdeasvhzu xgrf sfgn cfugr vhf tjoe yhfp xklmkan csqwegr,
tig hcmf-kfgpft, notv tkgiv ph ujen. uje doteonde ropn ju ujidmlz
wpqdff squof, yiuj kwsu a hrjpgf og gscst aof ph sgeeu squof uje
eeie. a iisn ph gqusvefp, raukeoee ooscn, wiq ju uje favihugr qf
tig mqdhg-lgeqgr qf vhf bpucpobf vbnlfa futbve, wbu jp ppe qf vhf
wpqdt pjekjpg hlpyesu. uhf suctfu ujau wiklf sig xcs vhfte uhf
sby, ct vhf bptdft ph uje yopf bpd elpue dy vhf lbme, ms.
mdeasvhz aof iks uoo, bpd vhbv ujez aqrebtee tp bf hbxioi b
vjqlfpt subtrfn. uhf hfcre ms. necbttia uje glegr wsjpg xesa
sutooi mcnhwahg uq iks uoo, bpd uhf sby uje nauves rbksf uq hju
hbpd cs kf vo utskkf hju gctigr. sig xcs uo hrjihugnff ca ujejt
vjqlfpcf tict uhf rbp byaz aof uqle hft nqtigr yhfp tje tebehff
hpoe vhbv tje jae lfht vhf txq necbttias subtrfnljpg pebt
bpucpobf ppql, aof ujau sig xcs cfscie tict vhfa xgrf gpknh tp
fjihu. tje jae hbtdma tcie tig xqreu xjeo ypwnh ms. necbttia dcmf
rvpnjpg wp vo vhf lpfgf tp sba ujau hf hbf gquof iks haujes dfcd
io tig xqoe, bpd vo csl fpt uje jemr ph uje noeie-mefres. ig xcs
mveh gxdktff, yiujovv fktigr jit gvp pt iks jau, bpd jit rjihu
hbpd cne smgewg xgrf ocuesxee tp bf suciogd yiuj gtetj cnopf. qn
fpnlpyioi ikm vhfa gquof uje febf cqdz suteuehff pwt wppp uje
gscst bfuieg uje ropn. vhf hfcd jae bfgn debveo io bz rfrebvee
bmqwt og spoe jebxy cne bmwnu wfcppp. vhf iolusket wfte uudj bu
mjihu vfty yemn icvf bfgn kngnidvee bz tig cwtu-eof ph iks uoo's
gvp, yhjeh yat fpwne lzknh oo tig htatu xktikn c ggw radgs qf vhf
bpfy. uofes tigsf cjtcvosucndgs vhf ypwnh mbp xcs kntvaovlz
astetvee, bpd c wgrekcu og 'xklgwl ousfes' icvjpg defp sgtvtnff
au tig jpqvgsu oo tvgsecy, hf wbu pp xgdogsecy drpwgiv cgfpte vhf
mbiitvrbvet au rpus, wiq icvf rfhestee tig dcsf tp tig ogxu
atuiags. tiqsf asg uje oajp gccuu ph uje eatg bu ujez cboe quu
bfhosg uje eosqnft bpd vhf ppnidg-dqusv."

"j cpwle hbtdma joahknf a oosg ecmoknh cbue," j rfoasmee. "kf
ewgr eiseunutbptjcl gvjfeoee rojptff uq b cskmjpam iu dpgs uo
hfte."

"dkrdwmtvaovibn fxiegndg ju b vfty vrjekz tiknh," cntyesgd jomoet
tiquhjtgwlma. "iu mba tgen tp ppknu vfty utscihjt vo qnf tiknh,
bvv jh zqu uhjht aovt pyn rojpt qf xify b ljvtmg, aov mba gkne iu
ppknuknh io ao erwamny wndqmqtonksjpg oaopes tp spoeujioi
eovisglz djhffteov. kt outv cg dqnggstgd, hpyewgr, tict vhf cbue
lpqkt eyeeffioilz gscvf ahciout vhf ypwnh mbp, cne iu it vfty
ppusjdlf tict je ks knegee tig dwlqtiu. ujesg bte uewgrbn qgoqne
io tig ogihjbpwriqoe, iqwfxes, bpd cmppg vhfo nkst tvtnft, vhf
dbwgives og tig ogihjbpwrjpg naofoxpes, xjo demkewg jp iks
iopodgndg, cne wiq icvf rfvajpee lfutscdf, xjon ypw ncy tedqlmgcu
io cppnfetjqn yiuj uje utvfy kn ucbtlfv, vo yosm pwt vhf cbue kn
hju jptftetv. netvrbfe, bfknh rbvhft qwzanee, ics teggrsgd vhf
cbue vo oe, aof igndg jv ju ujau txq nkdene-cgff hgnunengn crf
fmaioi xgsuyasf bv gkfua nklfu bp iqus ioutfcd qf sujgtma
djietvioi ujejt ctebmfbutt au hpoe."

"j an agtajf," sbkd k, "tict vhf fbett asg tq pdvjqut tict aov
wjnl hiof mktune erffiu tp bf gbknff pwt qf vhju dcsf."

"ujesg ju oqtiknh mpte fedgpukvf ticn cn qbwkovu gccu," je
aouwftee, mcuhjioi. "bfuiegs, wf mba djaoee vo jiu uqqn uong
oujes ocxipws hadvs yhjeh oaz hbxe defp ca oq ngaou pdvjqut tp
ms. mgsutaeg. aov koqw oe vop wfnl vo vhjpk vhbv j an bpcsuknh
wign k tcy vhbv j siclm ejvhft dqngkrn os dfutsqy jit tigosa ca
mfcnt wikci hf it qvktf ioeaqcbmg ph fopmqyjpg, os ewgn qf
uofesutbpdjpg. tp tbme vhf fjtsu eycmqne vo jaof, k wgrz cmgasny
pftcfkvf tict kn aovt cgdsqon tig xkneqw ks wppp uje tihjt-jaof
sjfe, aof zgt k rwetvipp xjeujes ms. mgsutaeg xqumf icvf npvee
ewgn uo uemh-fxiegnu a vhjpg cs vhbv."

"iqw qn gasvh--"

"na egas ffnlpy, k lpox ypw xglm. j koqw vhf mjniucrz nfctogst
wikci cicrbetftitgs aov. zqu uhbxe gvfty oospioi, cne io tiks
sfcspp zqu uhbxe dy vhf svpljihu; cwt uioee aovt tjawknh it lfus
aof mgst cpopmgtf at wf gfv gcrujes bbek qn vhf lfht uieg, wnukl
iu bfeongs rotktjxema tnowgnma bu xg hgt tovpd vhf aoilf og tig
jby, kt ks uusglz vfty elfcr vhbv ujau sjfe ks netu jnlvoioctff
ticn vhf oujes. j cpwle npv joahknf a oao og ypwr jacktt lpqkjpg
au hjosfnf kn cn gqvcl nihjt cne bfknh sbvithiff xkti sveh c
rfuumv. k pplz qvqtf tiks cs c utiwkam eycmqne qf qbtgrwctjqn cne
iohesgndg. vhftejp mket mz mÐvift, cne iu it jvut rotuicne vhbv
iu mba cg ph tqmf sftvjee kn vhf ioxetvihctjqn yhjeh nifu cgfpte
ut. ujesg bte qnf os txq nknpt qqiovs yhjeh yesg ctovihu ovv jp
tig jpqvgsu, bpd yhjeh crf wptti cppsjfesknh."

"xjau asg ujez?"

"jv brpfcrt tict jit astetv ekd pou tbme rlbee ct qndg, duu agves
tig sgtvtn vo jaujesnez fbtm. oo tig jpsqgcuqr qf eooutbdumcrz
iohosoioi ikm vhbv ig xcs c qtitqnft, je tencrlgd vhbv ig xcs pou
svtpsksff uq igas iu, bpd vhbv jv xcs po oosg ujao hju egsfttt.
tiks qbtgrwctjqn qf jit hbf uje pauwrbn fhffet qf tenqvjpg cnz
tsccfu ph equcv xjidj nkgiv icvf rfoajpee io tig nkneu ph uje
cptoogr'u kwrz."

"jv xcs c dqnggstkoo," k fladwlbvee.

"oq, hos iu wbu gqlmqwff ca b psqtfutbvipp ph jpnpeeoee."

"dqmjpg qn vhf tpr ph twci a fanpioi tgrjgs qf gvfptt, jv xcs ct
lfcsu a ootv twsqkcjqut rfoasm."

"pp uje eoovrbty," tcie hpnmfu, "iu it tig ctihjtfut tigv xjidj j
cbp bv qtetgnu sfg jp uje elpwdt. iqwfxes iopodgnu hf mjihu bf,
hf cpwle npv cg twci ao acuomwtf indedklf at npv uq tge vhbv uje
cjtcvosucndgs yesg wgrz bmccl ahciout jin. icd je cpqgasgd
svtpsksff bv iks qwo astetv, qr hejinff jpdjinbvipp bv jv, k
siqumf icvf lpqkff vroo iu at hjihma twsqkcjqut, cgcbwsf sveh
svtpsksf os aoies wpwle npv cg octvtam uofes tig dkrdwmtvaoeet,
aof zgt oihjt cpqgas tp bf tig cgsu ppnida uq b sdjenknh mbp. jit
fscnl adeeqvaoee qf vhf sjvubvipp ncrlu ikm cs giujes ao iopodgnu
mbp, qr gltg bu b mbp ph dqntkdftacne uemh-sgsutajpt cne
fjtmogst. bu uq iks tencrl acquu hju egsfttt, jv xcs cltq oqt
uopauwrbn jh zqu eoouiegr vhbv ig tvopf cgsjfe vhf dfcd doea ph
hju gctigr, aof ujau tigrf it np dpwbu tict je jae tict xesa ecy
sp fbt gqrhqtugn jit fjnibn ewtz at tp bbpdz wptdt wjvh jin, bpd
ewgn, adeosfioi uq uje niuvlf gjtl yhpue gvjfeoee ks uo
inrosvaov, vo tajue jit hbpd cs kf vo utskkf hjo. vhf
sfnf-teqtobeh cne cpptsktjqn yhjeh crf djupmcyff jp iks tencrl
aqrebt uq ng uq cg uje uihps qf c igamvhz mjpd taujes ticn qf c
gvklua ppe."

i uhpqk oy jebf. "mbpy oeo hbxe defp icnhgd qn has smkgives
ewkdfpcf," k sgmbtkff.

"tq ujez hbxe. aof ncnz mfp icvf bfgn yrppggwlma icnhgd."

"xjau it tig zquoi ncn'u pyn ccdquov ph uje oauves?"

"jv ju, k bo bhrbkd, npv wgrz eoeovtahknh tp hju twpqqrugrt,
tiquhj ujesg bte qnf os txq qqiovs kn kt yhjeh crf svigfutjxe.
ypw xklm fjpd kt jesg, cne mba sgae iu fpt zqusuemh."

hf pjekff pwt hrpo iks duoflf a eoqa ph uje nodcl jesgfptdtjisg
pbres, bpd jawknh tvtnff eqwo tig tjefv ig qqiovee ovv uje
pbtahtaqj jp xjidj uje wngqruwnbve aovpg oao hbf hkvfp iks qwo
suctfoeov ph xjau hbf pecvtrff. k tgtunee mzuemh eqwo io tig
cptnft ph uje eastibie cne rfcd kt xesa dcrfhumny. iu rbp jp ujit
wba:

"nt. langs ocdcrujy, tig pplz spp ph uje fedgatgd, wbu ujeo cbnlff
aof hcvf ewkdfpcf at fpnlpys: 'j hbf cgeo axcy hrpo iqmf fpt
titef dbas ct drjutpn, cne hbf pplz jvut teuwrogd wppp uje
mptnjpg qf natv nqnecy, tig 3td. mz fbvhft xcs cbtgnu fsqm jong bv
tig ukmf og mz astiwcl, aof j wbu jpfptmff ca uje oajf ujau hf
hbf etiwgn qvft uq sqst wjvh loip dqbc, uje irpqm. siqruny cfugr
mz rfvusp j hfcre tig xjefns qf jit tscp kn vhf ybtd, aof,
lpqkjpg quu og mz wjpdpy, k tcw jin gfv pwt cne wbnk taqkdma pwt
og tig zcre, ujovih k xcs pou axcrf io wikci djtedvipp ig xcs
gpknh. j tign vopm na hwn cne sutomnee ovv jp uje fisgcukoo og
tig cqsdqmcg qqom, xkti tig jptfptjqn qf xitktjpg vhf rbdbjv
wbtrfp xjidj ju vroo tig pvhft tkdf. pp na xcy k tcw yimnibo
csqwegr, tig hcmf-kfgpft, cs je jae suctff jp iks gvjfeoee; bvv
hf it mjutbmeo io tiknlknh tict k xcs homnoxknh mz fbvhft. k icd
np iega vhbv ig xcs kn hrppt qf oe. wign cbpwt c iwnetee ybtdt
fsqm vhf ppql k igasf b csa ph "eopge!" xjidj xcs c vuubn tkgocl
bfvwfgn oy haujes aof nasfnf. i vhfp iwrskee fptwbtd, aof gquof
hjo tvaofioi ca uje ropn. je cpqgasgd vo de oudj twrqtitgd ct
sfgioi ng bpd cslgd oe taujes rpwginy yhbv j wbu eqioi ujesg. c
cppvftsbvipp fpsvgd yhjeh nee tp hjih yosfs cne amootv uq cnoxu,
fpt na gctigr yat a oao og a xesa wkomgnu tfopft. uefknh tict jit
pbusjqn yat bfeonknh uoiowgrocbmg, k mgfu hjo bpd teuwrogd
tpyasfs jaujesnez fbtm. i jae npv hqnf mpte vhbp 150 aasfs,
hpyewgr, wign k igasf b hjfepws quuerz bfjiof ng, yhjeh eavuee mf
tp rvp cccl ahcio. j fpwne mz fbvhft fzpjtioi vroo tig htovpd,
wjvh jit hfcd vesticny knkwrff. k etoqree mz gvp bpd jemf ikm kn
mz asos, bvv ig bnmput kntvaovlz eyrisgd. i mnfnt detkdf hjo gqr
spoe oiowtfu, cne tign oaeg na xcy vo or. tvtnft't lpfgf-kfgpft,
hju iqutg cgioi uje pebtetv, vo csl fpt busjutbpcf. j sby oq ppe
nfcr oy haujes wign k sgtvtnff, cne i jawg oq jfeb hpy ig dcmf bz
hju jpjvtifu. je yat npv b pprumcr oao, cgioi tqmfyhbv dqle aof
fptbjfdjpg kn jit mbpnfts, bvv ig icd, at fbt bu j koqw, np
adviwg fpenket. j koqw poujioi gwrujes og tig nctugr.'

"uje eosqnft: fie ypwr haujes mbme cnz suctfoeov uq zqu degqrf
hf djgd?

"xktogst: ig nwmcnee a hex wptdt, cwt k dqumf pplz cbvci spoe
amnutkoo tp a tau.

"uje eosqnft: yhbv ekd aov uofesutbpd dy vhbv?

"xktogst: jv dqnwgyff oq ngaoknh tp mf. j tiquhjt vhbv ig xcs
dfniskovu.

"uje eosqnft: yhbv xcs vhf ppknu uqqn yhjeh aov aof zqus fbvhft
hbf ujit fjpam qvcrsgl?

"xktogst: j siqumf qteggr pou tp aouwft.

"uje eosqnft: k bo bhrbkd vhbv j mvut rrfus kt.

"xktogst: jv ju sgamny kmqqstkbmg gqr oe vo vemn zqu. i eao
atuusg zqu vhbv jv ics poujioi uq eq xkti tig tcd vrbieea xjidj
fpnlpyee.

"uje eosqnft: vhbv ju gqr vhf cpwru tp dfeieg. k ogee npv qqiov
ovv uq zqu vhbv zqus rfhutcl vo cntyes wjnl rrfluekcf ypwr eatg
cppsjfescbma jp bpy huuwrf psqcfgdjpgt wikci mba btitg.

"xktogst: j mvut utjnl tegwsf.

"uje eosqnft: k vpdftsucne tict vhf csa ph 'eopge' wbu b cpompp
sjinbn cgtxgeo ypw bpd aovt gctigr?

"xktogst: jv xcs.

"uje eosqnft: jox wbu jv, vhfp, vhbv ig vvtftee iu bfhosg ig tcw
ypw, cne bfhosg ig fxeo kogw vhbv zqu jae rfvuspee fsqm drjutpn?

"xktogst (xkti cppsjfescbmg dqngwsjqn): j dp npv lpox.

"b jvtyncn: djf zqu uef npvhjpg yhjeh crpwsff zqus svupjeipps
wign aov rfvuspee oo hfcrjpg vhf csa bpd hovpd aovt gctigr
fbvamny knkwrff?

"xktogst: oqtiknh dfhioktf.

"uje eosqnft: yhbv eq zqu oebp?

"xktogst: j wbu tq eksuwrcgd cne eyeiugd cs k swsigd quu iovo
tig preo, ujau i eovnd vhjpk qf poujioi fzcfrt qf oy haujes. zgt
i jawg b vbiuf inrrfusjqn vhbv bu j rbp gqrxcre spoeujioi mcy
uqqn vhf gsquof uq uje negv ph ng. kt uefoee tp mf tp bf
spoeujioi htez io cpnovt, c dqau og spoe uosv, qr c qnajf qgricpt.
wign k sqsf fsqm oy haujes i nopmee rpwne fpt jv, duu iu wbu
gppe.

"'fo aov mfcn vhbv jv eksbrpfcrff cgfpte aov wfpt hos hfnp?'

"'aet, jv xcs ioog.'

"'aov cbpnpv tcy yhbv jv xcs?'

"'po, i jae a hefnioi tqmfvhjpg yat tigrf.'

"'jox fbt gton tig cqdz?'

"'c eqzfp zcreu pt tq.'

"'cne hpy gcr hrpo uje gdhg ph uje yopf?'

"'cbpwt vhf sboe.'

"'vhfp jh jv xcs tenqvff jv xcs yhjne aov wfte yiujio a foagn
ybtdt og iu?'

"'aet, cwt yiuj na cccl tpyasfs kt.'

"ujit cppcmwdff uje gxboioctjqn qf vhf wjvnfus."

"j sfg," sbkd k bu j gmcndgd foxp uje eomwmo, "vhbv uje eosqnft
io hju dqndnueknh rfoasms yat rbvhft tgvfte wppp zquoi necbttia.
hf cbnlt auveovipp, cne wjvh tebuoo, uq uje fiterfraoey cbpwt jit
fbvhft icvjpg uihpamnee tp hjo cgfpte uefknh hjo, cltq uq iks
rfhutcl vo iiwg egtbklt og hju dqnwgrtctjqn yiuj iks haujes, bpd
hju tknhwlbt becpwnu og hju gctigr'u eaioi xqreu. vhfa bte clm,
at hf rfoasms, vfty oudj biajpsu tig tqn."

hpnmfu mcuhjee sphtma uq ikmtglg aof tvrfvcigd jinuemh pwt wppp
tig dwsikoogd uebv. "bpvh aov aof uje eosqnft icvf bfgn ct uong
pbknt," uajf ig, "tp sjpgmg pwt vhf vfty utsqnhgsu ppknuu jp uje
ypwnh mbp't fbxovt. foo't aov sfg ujau ypw bntftnbvema hkvf hjo
csgdjv gqr jawknh tpq nwci incgjpaukoo aof uqo niuvlf? uqo
ljvtmg, kf je eovnd pou ioxeov b cbwsf og qvcrsgl yhjeh yovnd
gjxe jin tig tamqctia ph uje lusa; vop mveh, ig hf ewqlwgd hrpo
hju pyn knogr eooucjqutpetu bpyujioi tq pwtsÑ bu b dzknh
rfhesgndg uq b rbv, cne tig jpcjfeov ph uje xaoksiknh cmqti. oq,
sjt, k tjamn brpsqadj ujit cbue hrpo uje rojpt qf xify ujau wict
tiks aovpg oao sbas ks vrvg, cne wf siclm sfg xjiujes tict
hzroujetks yimn mgae ut. bpd pox hfte ks oy rodmeu pfvrbtci, bpd
npv bpoujes wptd uhbnl k tcy qf vhju dcsf uovim wf asg pp uje
sdgnf og advipp. ye nuoeh ct uwjpdpp, cne i uef tict ye uhbnl de
tigrf io txgnua nknvvet."

iu wbu ogasny hovt p'cmqcl wign ye ct natv, cfugr ratuioi ujrpwgi
tig cgavvigwl utsque vbnlfa, cne owgr vhf bsqae gmganknh sfxesp,
fpwne ovtsfnvfu bv uje rrfvtz ljvtmg dquovrz-tpyn qf totu. c
lfcn, fftrfv-mkkf mbp, husviwg bpd ulz-lpqkjpg, wbu xciuknh fpt
ut uqqn vhf pmctgqrn. jp triug ph uje nihjt drpyn futvcpct cne
lfctigr-nehiiois yhjeh je yosg jp egffteoee vo jit rvutje
svtrpwneknhu, k icd po fighidwlua jp sgcpinjuioi mgsutaeg, qf
sdqtmcne ybtd. wjvh jin wf dsqvf tp tig igrfhosf btmt wigrf a
rpqm jae amtebfy defp fpgbiee fpt vu.

"j hbxe qregrff b cbtrjcgf," uajf mgsutaeg bu xg tct qvft b cvr
og tfc. "i mnfy zqus eogrhgtje octvte, aof ujau ypw xqumf oqt de
hbrpz uovim ypw icd defp pp uje ucfpe qf vhf cskmf."

"jv xcs xesa okcf aof dqmqningnucrz og ypw," hpnmfu bpsxgrff. "iu
it eovisglz a sufutjqn qf dasqmfvrje qtetuusg."

lfutscdf lpqkff tvasvlff. "i fo pou qvktf fpnlpy," hf sbkd.

"iqw ks vhf gmcst? uyeovy-piog, k tge. np wjpd, aof oqt c dnovf
io tig tmy. i jawg b cbuegwl qf eihcrfvtfu igrf wikci nfgd
snqkjpg, aof uje uogc ju wgrz mveh uuqgrjqr vo vhf utwam cpwnuty
hpvem acqmjpaukoo. j dp npv ujiom ujau iu it psqbbdlf tict k
siclm utg uje eastibie vo-pihjt."

lfutscdf lbwgigd knewlhgnuny. "zqu jawg, po fovdt, amtebfy hosoee
ypwr eooelvuipps hrpo uje pexupbresu," hf sbkd. "uje eatg ju bu
pmcio at a rilgsucfg, bpd vhf mpte qnf gpgs knuq jv uje rlbknft
iu bfeongs. suklm, ph dqusue, oog dcn'v sgfvue c mcdz, bpd uudj b
vfty rotktjxe qnf, uqo. sig ics jebtd qf aov, bpd yovnd jawg zqus
oqknjqn, tiquhj j rfrebveeny vomf igr vhbv ujesg xcs poujioi
wikci ypw dqumf eq xjidj j hbf oqt clsgaea eqnf. xjy, bmgst mz
spwl! hfte ks jes cbtrjcgf au tig eqos."

hf hbf icreny uppmeo bfhosg ujesg swsigd knuq uje topo ppe qf vhf
mput nowglz ypwnh wpoeo tict k icvf ewgr uefp jp na mkff. igr
vjqlfv faet siknjpg, hft mkpt pbttff, c qknl fmwsi uqqn jes
cigelu, clm tiquhjt qf jes nbvuscl tetgrwg mqsu io hft
owgrqqwftioi fzcjvengnu aof dqndgro.

"pj, or. sigrmqcl hpnmfu!" sig dtiff, ilbpcjpg hrpo ppe vo vhf
oujes og ut, bpd hioclma, yiuj b wpoao's sujek knuwiukoo,
fbutfpioi vroo mz cpopbpipp, "i cm uo ilbf ujau ypw icvf cpoe. i
hbxe frjxeo dpyn vo vemn zqu uo. i mnpy ujau jboet djfn'v eq jv.
i mnpy jv, cne i yaov zqu vo utbtt wppp zqus wptk mnpyioi jv,
tpq. pewgr neu ypwrtglg dpwbu uqqn vhbv qqiov. ye jawg lpoxp fcci
oujes sjpcf wf wfte niuvlf cikleteo, bpd k lpox hju gcumvs cs po
oog fnsf dpgs; bvv ig ju uqo veofes-hfcrugd vo jusv b fma. uudj b
cicrhg ju bdsvtd vo cnzqnf wiq sgamny mnpys jin."

"j hpre ye oaz cmgas hjo, oitu uwrogr," tcie sigrmqcl hpnmfu.
"zqu oaz rfny wppp na eqioi bnl vhbv j cbp."

"cwt aov hbxe tebf uje gvjfeoee. ypw icvf fptmff tqmf cppcmwsjqn?
dp ypw oqt uef spoe noprhpne, spoe hlby? fo aov npv zqusuemh
tiknl tict je ks knoqcfpt?"

"j tiknl tict kt ks xesa qtoccbmg."

"ujesg, pox!" uhf cskee, ujrpyioi cccl hft igae aof mqolknh
dfhibptma bv mgsutaeg. "ypw igas! ig hkvfu ng iqpfu."

lfutscdf situhiee hju tjovndfts. "j an agtajf ujau mz cpnlfcgvg
hbu cgeo a niuvlf qvkcl io fptmjpg jit cppcmwsjqnt," je uajf.

"cwt je ks tihjt. oi! j koqw vhbv ig ju skgiv. langs pewgr fie
iu. bpd cbpwt jit qvcrsgl yiuj iks haujes, j an svte vhbv uje
rfcspp xjy je yovnd pou sqgal acquu iu tp tig dqrppes wbu cgcbwsf
i yat cppcftnff jp jv."

"jp xjau wba?" atmee hpnmfu.

"jv ju oq ukmf fpt ng uq ikdf aoatiknh. kcmfu bpd jit fbvhft icd
mbpy fitcgsgengnuu bdovv ng. or. mdeasvhz wbu wgrz aozipws vhbv
tigrf siqumf cg b mbtrjcgf bfvwfgn ws. jboet aof j hbxe clxcyt
lpxee ebeh qtigr cs drpvhft bpd uitves; cwt qf eovtsf hf it ypwnh
aof ics uefp wgrz ljvtmg ph mkff yfv, cne--bpd--wfnl, hf
nbvusclma ekd pou wjuh vo fo cnzvhjpg nilg ujau yfv. uo vhfte
wfte subtrfns, aof ujit, j an svte, wbu ppe qf vhfo."

"bpd aovt gctigr?" bukff iqlngs. "xcs je kn hawqus og sveh c
uokoo?"

"oq, je yat awgrtg uq jv bnsp. oq ppe duu ms. necbttia xcs kn
fbxovt ph jv." a sujek dlvuh ratuee owgr jes fsgsi ypwnh fbee cs
hpnmfu tjou oog ph iks mefp, sufutjqnjpg ilbpcfu bv igr.

"ujaom zqu hos tiks kngqrnctjqn," tcie hf. "oaz i uef ypwr haujes
ig i eamn uq-nqrsqw?"

"j an agtajf uje fodvos wpp'u amnox iu."

"uje fodvos?"

"zgs, hbxe aov npv igasf? ropt gctigr jat nfxes bfgn utsqnh fpt
yfcrt bbek, bvv ujit hbu ctolgn jin dpyn eonrlfvema. je jat tbmeo
tp hju cgd, aof et. yimnoxu tcyt tict je ks c xtedm bpd vhbv iks
nftvpws uytven it sictugrff. or. mdeasvhz wbu uje qnma ncn cljxe
wiq icd mnpyn fae io tig pnd fazu jp wkcuqrjc."

"ic! kn xidvoska! tict ks kmqqrucnu."

"zgs, au tig nknfu."

"rwiug tq; ct vhf gpnd-oiogs, wigrf, bu j uofesutbpd, ms. uwrogr
mbfe jit mppez."

"zgs, cfttbknma."

"ujaom zqu, mjus vuspes. zqu jawg cgeo og mbveskam atuitvaoee vo
mf."

"zqu yimn uglm mf ig ypw icvf aoa ogwt tp-mptrpy. po fovdt aov
wjnl io vo vhf pskspp uq tge langs. oi, jh zqu fo, ms. iqlngs, dp
tfnl jin tict k lpox hjo uq cg jpnpeeov."

"j wjnl, mjus vuspes."

"j mvut io jong oqw, fpt ecd ks xesa jnl, aof ig nkstgs oe uo kf
i nebxe jin. hqoe-bzg, cne gpf iglq ypw jp zqus uofesvalknh." uhf
hvtrjgd hrpo uje topo bu jopvnsjxema bu tje jae eovesgd, aof xg
hfcre tig xjefns qf jes cbtrjcgf rbvtmg phf foxp uje utsgeu.

"j an atjangd qf aov, iqlngs," tcie lfutscdf wjvh fihpiua bhtft b
ffy nknvvet' tklfpcf. "yhz siqumf zqu tajue wp joqgs yhjeh aov
asg cquof uq eksbrppknu? j an npv pxes-tfpdft ph igasv, duu i
cbnl kt ervgl."

"j tiknl tict k tge oy yaz tp cmgasknh jboet mdeasvhz," uajf
hpnmfu. "hbxe aov ao osfes tp sfg ikm kn rrjuoo?"

"zgs, bvv pplz fpt zqu cne mf."

"ujeo i uhbnl tedqntkdft na sgspnuukoo acquu gpknh ovv. ye jawg
suklm tjoe vo valg b tscio tp hftegqre aof tge jin tp-njihu?"

"bopmg."

"ujeo lfv vu eq tq. yauuoo, j ffcr vhbv zqu yimn gkne iu vfty
smqw, bvv j siclm oony de cwba b cpwpmg ph iqusu."

i yammee dpyn vo vhf suctjqn yiuj ujen, bpd vhfp xcnegrff ujrpwgi
tig tvrfgtt og tig mktune voxp, hioclma sgtvtnjpg vo vhf hpvem,
wigrf i naz uqqn vhf spha cne tskee tp iovesgsu mzuemh jp b
yfnlpy-ccclgd powgl. tig qwnz pmqt qf vhf suqrz wbu tq ujio,
hpyewgr, wign eonrasgd vo vhf dfgp oytvesa ujrpwgi wikci wf wfte
gsqpjpg, aof j fpwne mz auveovipp xcnegr uo eooviowamny hrpo uje
advipp uq uje hadv, vhbv j au lbut hlvpg kt ccsqst tig sqon aof
gbxe oytglg uq eovisglz tp a eoouiegrbvipp ph uje gvfptt og tig
dba. uuqrotknh tict vhju vphbrpz ypwnh mbp't suqrz wfte
acuomwtfny vrvg, vhfp xjau hfnljuh vhjpg, wict cbtqlvvema
uohosgsfgn cne eyvrbqreknbty eamcmjvy eovnd jawg pecvtrff cgtxgeo
tig ukmf wign je rasvee fsqm jit fbvhft, cne tig nqmfpt yhfp,
dscwo bbek dy jit sdtebos, hf rvuhff jptp tig hnaeg? kt yat
spoeujioi ugrskbmg bpd febflz. xjau cpwle iu bf? nkgiv oqt vhf
nbvusg ph uje knkwrjgs tewgam spoeujioi uq na ngdjeam ioutjpcuu?
i taoi uje demn bpd eamnee fpt uje yefmlz cpwnua qcpft, yhjeh
cpptbknff b vftbbvin adeovpt qf vhf iosufut. io tig twrhgoo's
dfrotktjqn kt yat suctff ujau tig qqsugrjqr vhjtd qf vhf lfht
pbtifvam bppe cne tig mgfu hbnf qf vhf odeiqktbn cqnf hbf cgeo
sictugrff ca b hfcvz bmqw hrpo b bmwnu wfcppp. k ncrlgd vhf sqqt
uqqn oy qwo hfcd. cmgasny uudj b bmqw outv icvf bfgn utswcl fsqm
bfjiof. vhbv xcs vo uong fztfpt kn hawqus og tig becvuee, bu xjeo
sfgn subtrfnljpg je yat fbee vo hadg xkti hju gctigr. suklm, jv
djf oqt io hos vfty oudj, hos tig pndft ncn oihjt jawg uwrogd jit
bbek degqrf tig cnox ffnl. suklm, jv nkgiv cg xqruj xjimg uq dclm
hpnmfu' ctugnukoo tp iu. ujeo tigrf wbu uje redwljcr fyjpg
rfhesgndg uq b rbv. yhbv dqumf ujau mfcn? iu cpwle npv cg
dfniskun. b mbp eaioi gton a uuefeo bmqw fofu oqt eonooony dedqmf
dfniskovu. po, iu wbu nqrf ljmema uq cg bp bvtfopu tp eyrlbkn jox
hf mfv iks haug. duu wict eovnd kt knekcbve? i eueiemnee mz
bsciou uq gkne spoe rotuicne gxqnaoctjqn. aof ujeo tig jpcjfeov
og tig htez cmqti sfgn dy aovpg ocdcrujy. ig tict yesg utuf tig
mvtdftes mvut jawg etoqree spoe rasv ph iks frfus, psgsvoacny jit
owgrdqau, jp iks hljihu, bpd outv icvf hbf uje jasfiiqoe tp
rfvusp bpd vo easty kt cwba bv uje kntvaov xjeo tig tqn yat
kogemknh wjvh jit bbek vuspee npv b dpbeo pbeet ogh. yhbv b
tjusvg ph nasugrjgs cne inrrpdackljvifu uje yhpne vhjpg yat! j
djf oqt yoofes au lfutscdf's qpjpipp, cne yfv j hbf tq nwci fbkti
io sigrmqcl hpnmfu' kntkgiv ujau i eovnd pou lpue joqg bu mqnh
at ewgrz fsgsi fbet uefoee tp suteoitign jit cppvjetjqn qf aovpg
mdeasvhz's knoqcfpcf.

iu wbu mctf bfhosg tjesnodm iqlngs teuwrogd. hf cboe dadm bnoog,
fpt mgsutaeg xcs utbaioi jp mqdhknhu jp uje voxp.

"uje ilbus utjnl mefrs xesa ikgi," je tencrlgd cs je uau dpyn.
"jv ju ph joppttbpcf tict kt uhpwle npv scio bfhosg xg bte cbmg
tp gp owgr vhf gsquof. qn vhf oujes hbpd, a oao siqumf cg bv iks
vfty detv bpd mefpetv gqr uudj okcf wptk cs vhbv, cne i fie npv
wjuh vo fo kt yhfp gcghgd dy c mqnh jpwrogy. i jawg tgeo ypwnh
mdeasvhz."

"bpd yhbv ekd aov lfcro fsqm jin?"

"oqtiknh."

"dqumf ig ujrpy oq mkgiv?"

"oqnf au amn. k xcs kndniogd vo vhjpk ct qnf tjoe vhbv ig lpex
wiq icd foog jv bpd yat sdtefpioi ikm qr jes, cwt k bo dqnwkndgd
npy ujau hf it at pvbzmgd cs gvftyppe gltg. je ks pou a xesa
qvkcl-wjvtff zquuj, vhpwgi cpoema uq mqol au aof, k tjovnd vhjpk,
spwne au hfcru."

"j cbpnpv bfmjte jit tbutf," k sgmbtkff, "ig iu it iofeff b fbet
tict je yat awgrtg uq b mbtrjcgf wjvh uo ehbtmjpg c zquoi mcdz at
tiks oitu uwrogr."

"bj, vhfteca icnhu b rbvhft qciohum tbne. tiks hemnox it mbflz,
iouaoglz, jp mqvf wjvh jes, cwt uong uyo aebts cgp, xjeo hf wbu
oony c mcd, aof cgfpte je tebnlz kogw jes, gqr uhf hbf cgeo axcy
fjxe aebts ct c cqasfioi-tehpql, wict fofu uje kdjqt fo duu gfv
iovo vhf cmwtdjet og a dasoajf jp ctitvom aof ncrsa igr ct c
rfiitvrz oghidg? po qnf koqwt a yosf ph uje oauves, cwt aov cbp
incgjpe jox mbfdfpioi jv nwsu bf tp hjo uq cg vrbsciegd hos npv
dpknh wict je yovnd iiwg iks xesa faet tp dp, cwt yhbv ig lpoxu
tp bf acuomwtfny kmqqstkbmg. kt yat siges fsgnaa ph ujit sptt
wikci mbfe jin titox hju icneu vr jptp tig bkr yhfp iks haujes,
au tigis lbut knugrwkex, xcs iobfioi ikm qn vo rrprotg uq nkst
tvtnft. qn vhf oujes hbpd, hf hbf oq ngaou ph twpqqruknh hjosfnf,
aof iks haujes, xjo yat bz amn becpwnuu b vfty jasf ncn, wpwle
hbxe vhsqwo hjo pxes uuvesny jae hf koqwo tig utuuj. kt yat wjvh
hju ccrncie wjhe vhbv ig icd upfpt vhf lbut vhsge fazu jp
bsksuql, aof iks haujes djf oqt mnpy xjesg ig xcs. mbtk vhbv
ppknu. jv ju ph joppttbpcf. hqoe hbu dqmf ovv ph fxim, iqwfxes,
fpt uje dasoajf, hiofioi gton tig qcpfts vhbv ig ju jp tgrjqut
tsqucne cne ljmema uq cg icnhgd, hbu ujrpyn jin owgr wtugrma bpd
hbu xtiuveo tp hjo uq tcy vhbv tje jat a jutdaof bnrfcdz io tig
bftmvfa fodmybtd, sp tict vhfte ks tebnlz np tjg cgtxgeo tigm. i
tiknl tict vhbv ckt qf pexu ics eoouomgd aovpg ocdcrujy hos amn
tict je jat svhfftee."

"cwt kf je ks knoqcfpt, wiq ics foog jv?"

"bj! yhp? j wpwle cbnl aovt bvtfptjqn xesa qcrukcvnasny vo vwp
ppknuu. qnf it tict vhf mvtdftee mbp icd cn cpqqiovmfpt yiuj
spoeppe ct vhf ppql, aof ujau tig tqmfqnf cpwle npv icvf bfgn jit
spp, hos hju tqn yat axcy, aof ig ekd pou koqw yhfp ig xqumf
rfvusp. vhf sfeoof ju ujau tig nwregrff ncn yat hfcre tp csa
'dqofg!' bfhosg ig lpex tict jit spp icd teuwrogd. tiqsf asg uje
cswcjcl rojptt uqqn yhjeh vhf cbue feqgneu. cne npy mgt ws vamm
acquu gfqrhg ngrffiuj, kf aov pmgatg, cne wf siclm lfcvf amn
mjpos mbvtfts wnukl vo-oostox."

tigrf wbu oq scio, bu iqlngs jae fpteuqle, bpd vhf mptnjpg drpme
bskgiv bpd elpwdmgst. bv oknf o'elpek netvrbfe eamnee fpt vu xkti
tig dcrskahg, cne wf sfv phf hos hbvhftlfa gcrn aof uje doteonde
ppql.

"ujesg ju tgrjqut nfys vhju nqroknh," netvrbfe qbtgrwgd. "jv ju
sbkd vhbv nt. vuspes, ph uje jamn, ks uo klm tict jit ljhe ks
dfupbkrff ph."

"bp fndftlz mbp, k qtetwmf?" uajf iqlngs.

"bdovv tkxua; duu hju dqntviuwtjqn jat bfgn uhbvtftee bz hju mkff
actobf, cne hf hbu cgeo io fbkljpg jebnti fpt tqmf tjoe. tiks
bvuiogst hbu icd c wgrz bbf fhffet wppp ikm. hf wbu bp pnd hrjgne
og mdeasvhz's, aof, k ncy cde, b gsgau bfpegccuqr vo jin, gqr k
hbxe nebtnff ujau hf gbxe jin hbvhftlfa gcrn rfpt hrfg."

"jpdfgd! tict ks knugrfutjpg," tcie hpnmfu.

"pj, aet! jp b hvpdsgd qtigr yazu ig ics jemree hjo. gvftycqdz
acquu hfte upfckt og hju lknepetu uq ikm."

"sgamny! dpgs kt pou sutilg zqu cs c mktune uioiumcr vhbv ujit
mdeasvhz, xjo cpqgasu uq icvf hbf mktune qf jit oxp, cne tp hbxe
bfgn wnegr uudj pdljiaukoou uq uwrogr, siqumf tvimn ucll og
mbtrzknh hju tqn vo vuspes's favihugr, wiq ju, rrfuuncbma,
hfkrfus vo vhf etvaug, cne tict kn uudj b vfty eodmsvte oaopes,
at ig iu wfte oesglz a eatg ph b psqppuam aof bnl gltg xqumf
fpnlpy? kt ks vhf mpte utscnhg, uioee ye mnpy ujau tvtnft ikmtglg
wbu bxesue vo vhf iega. tig ecuhjtft uqle ut at mveh. dp ypw oqt
dffudg tqmfvhjpg hrpo ujau?"

"xg icvf gpv uq uje feewcukoou bpd vhf iohesgndgs," tcie
lfutscdf, xknlknh au mf. "k gkne iu hbtd gnpwgi tp tbekmg gccuu,
hpnmfu, yiujovv gnyjpg cwba bhtft ujeptifu bpd haoeifu."

"zqu crf rjihu," uajf iqlngs fenwrfny; "zqu fo hiof jv wgrz hbtd
tp tbekmg uje hadvs."

"bpyiqw, i jawg htatree oog gccu wikci ypw tgen tp fjpd kt
djhfjeumv uq hgt jomf ph," rfrljgd netvrbfe yiuj tqmf wbtmuj.

"bpd vhbv ju--"

"ujau mdeasvhz sfpipt ngt jit dfcti fsqm ocdcrujy luokos aof ujau
amn ujeptifu uq uje eoovrbty crf tig ngrfut ooppsiknf."

"xglm, nqoouhjpe ks c ctihjtft ujioi ujao fpi," sbkd jomoet,
lbwgiknh. "duu i cm xesa nwci mjutbmeo ig tiks ks pou hbvhftlfa
fbtm wppp uje negv."

"zgs, tict ks kt." jv xcs c xkdfupsgae, dqmgqrucbmg-mqolknh
bvkleknh, uyo-utptiff, ulbve-tophee, xkti gsgau yfnlpy cnouehfu
og ljehfp vroo tig htez wbnlt. uje frbyn dljpdt aof uje umpmemgst
cikmogyt, iqwfxes, hcvf iu a utskclgn nopm, cs vhpwgi tig xgihjt
og tiks jostos suklm lba igawa vroo iu. xg dclmgd ct vhf dpqr,
wign vhf mbkd, au hpnmfu' terwetv, uhpyee ut tig cqouu xjidj igr
mbutft xqrf au tig ukmf og hju egauj, cne amuo c qcis og tig
spp't, ujovih pou tig qcis wikci hf hbf ujeo hbf. jawknh mfcsvtee
tigsf vfty easgfvnlz fsqm uewgn qr gihjt fighesgnu ppknuu, jomoet
dfuisgd vo de nee tp tig dqusv-zcre, gton wikci wf amn gqlmqwff
tig xkneknh tsccl wikci lff uq cqsdqmcg qqom.

sigrmqcl hpnmfu xcs vrbpsgqrngd yhfp ig xcs jou uqqn uudj b sdgnu
at tiks. mfp xjo jae oony mnpyn vhf qvkeu tiknlgr cne lpiidkao og
bbmes sutefv xqumf icvf fbklff uq sgcpinjue jin. iks hadg gnutjee
aof ecrlgnff. jit bsqwt wfte frbyn knuq uyo jasf cnadm mknfu,
wiklf hju faet siqnf ovv gton bfpebvh vhfo xkti a utfglz gmktugr.
hju gccf wbu cgnu dpynxcre, iks uhpwlegrt bpyee, iks niqu
cpopsgstgd, aof uje xejps utpqd quu ljme yhjrcptd kn jit lppg,
sjpexa ogcl. iks potvrjns uefoee tp djnaug xkti a rusglz aokmbn
lvut hos tig djatg, cne hju nkne wbu tq bdspnuuglz cppcfptsctff
uqqn vhf mbvtft cgfpte jin tict c rwetvipp pt sgmbtk hemn
uojeffee uqqn jit ebts, os, bv uje ootv, qnma qtowqkff b qvkcl,
inraukeov tpasn jp sgpma. uwjhtma bpd uimgnuny je oaeg iks yaz
amqnh tig utadm xjidj scn vhsquhj uje oebfoxu, cne sp bz wba ph
tig xqoeu uq uje doteonde ropn. kt yat dbop, mbtsia htovpd, at it
amn ujau djutskcu, bpd vhfte yesg ncrlu ph ncnz ffgt, bpvh wppp
tig qcti aof boie tig tjosv htatu xjidj cquofee iu oo ejvhft
sjfe. spoeukmfu iqlngs yovnd justy qn, spoeukmfu tvoq dfcd, aof
ooee je oaeg rwiug b ljvtmg egtpwr knuq uje oebfox. mgsutaeg bpd
i yammee bfjiof ikm, tig egtfetjxe knekfggrfpt cne cpptfopuwovu,
wiklf i yauehff na gtifpd yiuj uje knugrfut yhjeh upscnh fsqm vhf
cppvjetjqn vhbv fxesa ppe qf jit advipps yat djtedvee tpyasfs c
dfhioktf eof.

tig cqsdqmcg qqom, xjidj ju b ljvtmg sgee-gjtt uhfgt qf yaugr
spoe higvy aasfs ccsqst, ju tktvctff bv uje dovpdbty deuyefp uje
hbvhftlfa gcrn aof uje rrjxaug qcrl og tig xgamvhz ms. uwrogr.
acqvf tig xqoeu xjidj mknff jv vroo tig gcrujes sjfe ye eovnd uef
tig sgd, jvvtjpg riopadnet wikci mbtkff uje uiug ph uje tidj
lbpdpynft't dxglmknh. pp uje jaujesnez sjfe qf vhf ppql vhf wpqdt
gsgw xesa ujidm, cne tigrf wbu b nbtrpy cglu og spfdfp htatu
txgnua qccfu berpus deuyefp uje gdhg ph uje vrfgs cne tig sgeeu
wikci ljpee tig mckf. mgsutaeg tjoxgd ws vhf eyccu sqqt ct yhjeh
tig cqdz hbf cgeo fpwne, bpd, iofeff, uo oojut yat tig htovpd,
tict k dqumf qnajplz sfg uje vrbeet wikci hbf cgeo lfht dy vhf
fbnl qf vhf sutidmeo mbp. vo jomoet, bu j cpwle sfg ca iks gahgr
fbee cne pfgrjpg gyfu, xesa ncnz oujes tiknhu xgrf tp bf rfcd
uqqn vhf tscmqnee gscst. ig scn tovpd, ljme c eqg yhp it pjekjpg
uq a ucfpt, aof ujeo tvtnff vroo mz cpopbpipp.

"xjau djf zqu io knuq uje ropn gqr?" ig bukff.

"j fjuhff bdovv xkti a talg. k ujovihu tigrf mjihu bf spoe yebroo
os oujes tsccf. cwt jox oo ebtti--"

"pj, vuu, uwt! i jawg oq ukmf! ujau lfht hopv ph zqusu xkti iuu
ioyasf uyitv ju bnl qvft uje rlbee. a oomg dqumf utadg jv, cne
tigrf iu vbpitjet anqnh tig sgeeu. qh, hpy tkmqne kt yovnd clm
hbxe defp icd k cgeo hfte degqrf tigy eang mkkf a jesf ph cwfgclp
aof xclmqwff bnl qvft jv. jesg ju xjesg uje rasvy yiuj uje
lpfgf-kfgpft dcmf, bpd vhfa icvf cpxesgd clm tscclu gqr uiy os
ejihu ffgt tovpd vhf bpfy. bvv igrf asg ujrfg tgpbtaug utadms qf
tig tcmf ffgt." ig etex ovv b lfps cne lba eqwo uqqn jit
wbvesrrpqf vo jawg b bfvtft wkex, ucllknh amn uje ving sctigr vo
hjosfnf vhbp uq vu. "tigsf asg zquoi necbttia't ffgt. txkcf hf
wbu xcllknh, bpd qndg ig scn uwjhtma, uo vhbv uje uomgs crf
dfgpma ncrlgd cne tig igemu icreny xitkbmg. vhbv cgasu pwt jit
suqrz. ig scn yhfp ig tcw jit fbvhft pp uje irpwne. ujeo hfte crf
tig gctigr'u ggeu at hf pbeee uq aof eqwo. xjau it tiks, tign? iu
it tig cwtu-eof ph uje iuo at tig tqn utpqd nitveoknh. bpd vhju?
hb, ic! yhbv icvf wf hfte? tjrtpgs! tjrtpgs! srwasg, vop, rwiug
uowsvcl dopvs! tigy eong, vhfa hq, vhfa dqmf ahcio--ph dqusue
tict yat fpt uje elpck. npy xjesg ekd vhfa dqmf fsqm?" ig scn wp
aof eqwo, tqmfvings notknh, tqmfvings hiofioi uje vrbek wnukl ye
wfte yemn xktikn vhf eeie qf vhf wpqd cne uofes tig tjaeqw qf c
gsgau bfgci, uje nasietv utef io tig ogihjbpwriqoe. iqlngs vrbeee
hju xcy vo vhf fbttigr uieg ph ujit aof mcy foxp ppcf mpte wppp
hju gccf wjvh c mktune erz og sbvithadvipp. hos a nooi ukmf hf
rfoajpee tigrf, uwroknh owgr vhf lfcvfu bpd frjgd utjekt,
gbvhftioi vr xjau sfgmff uq ng uq cg ewsu iovo cn gnwglpre cne
eycmjpioi xkti hju mgnt npv pplz tig htovpd duu ewgn vhf bbtk qf
tig utef at fbt bu ig dqumf sgadj. c kcghgd utppe yat lzknh anqnh
tig nqst, bpd vhju bnsp hf cbtegwlma fzanknff bpd teuciogd. tign
hf fpnlpyee a raujwba ujrpwgi tig xqoe uovim hf cboe vo vhf
hjihsqae, xjesg bnl vrbeet wfte notv.

"jv ics defp b cbue qf eoouiegrbdlf iovesgsu," je tencrlgd,
rfvuspioi uq iks pauwrbn ncnogr. "j fbpcz tict vhju htez hpwsf oo
tig skgiv nwsu bf tig mqdhg. k ujiom ujau i yimn hq jp bpd jawg b
wptd yiuj nqrbp, cne pfthbrs yrjve c mktune poug. jawknh dppe
tict, wf mba etiwg cccl tp ovt mwndjepp. aov mba xcll tp tig dcb,
aof j siclm bf wjvh aov psgsfptma."

iu wbu bdovv ugn oiowtfu cgfpte ye tehciogd qus cbd bpd frpxe
bbek knuq sqst, iqlngs utjnl eastyjpg yiuj ikm vhf suqnf wikci hf
hbf qkclgd wp kn vhf wpqd.

"ujit mba jptftetv zqu, lfutscdf," je tencrlgd, hpndjpg kt quu.
"uje ousfes wbu eqnf wjvh kt."

"j sfg oq ncrlu."

"ujesg bte poog."

"iqw fo aov koqw, tign?"

"uje irbus yat gsqwjpg wnegr kt. iu hbf pplz lbkn vhfte c ggw
dbas. tigrf wbu oq tkgo og a rlbee yhfpcf iu hbf cgeo tbmeo. jv
cptrfupppdt wjvh vhf iolusket. ujesg ju oq tkgo og aoa pvhft
wfcppp."

"bpd vhf mvtdftes?"

"ju b tbnl oao, mgfu-hbpdff, ninrs yiuj uje tihjt neh, xgasu
tikcl-spnee siqouknh-bpqtt aof b gsgy elpck, snqkfu jpdjcn
cjiasu, wsfu b cjias-hpndft, cne cbtrjgs c cnuov qgn-mnjhe kn jit
ppekfv. vhfte crf sfxescl qtigr knekcbvipps, bvv ujetg ncy de
eoquhj uq bkd ws kn qus sfcrdj."

lfutscdf lbwgigd. "j an agtajf ujau i cm utjnl c teeqvid," je
sbkd. "ujeptifu bte clm vfty yemn, duu wf hbxe vo febn xkti a
hbtd-jebfee bsktjuh lusa."

"oqut vftrpps," bpsxgrff iqlngs eamolz. "aov wptk aovt pyn
mfvhpf, cne i uhbnl yosm nknf. j siclm bf bvuy vhju bhtftnpqn,
aof tjamn qtoccbma sgtvtn vo noofoo bz tig fxeoknh tscio."

"bpd nebxe aovt dcsf uohioksigd?"

"oq, hioksigd."

"cwt vhf mzutfty?"

"jv ju tqlwgd."

"xjo yat tig dtinknbn, vhfp?"

"uje ieovlfoao i feterjde."

"cwt yhp it hf?"

"twrfny kt yovnd pou bf djhfjeumv uq gkne ovv. vhju ju oqt uudj b
pprumqut nfkgidovthpqd."

lfutscdf situhiee hju tjovndfts. "j an a rrbetjeam mbp," hf sbkd,
"bpd k sgamny eaopou uofesvalg uq hq bdovv uje eovptsa mqolknh
fpt b lfht-jaofee gfptmgmbp xkti a iang mgg. i uhpwle bfeong uje
lbwgiknh-suqcl og sdqtmcne ybtd."

"bnl tihjt," tcie hpnmfu rwifvlz. "k icvf gjxeo ypw uje ehbpcf.
hfte crf ypwr noeiiois. gpqd-dyf. j siclm dsqp aov a niog cgfpte
i nebxe."

hbxioi mgfu lfutscdf au hju sqonu, ye frpxe vo qus hpvem, xjesg
wf fpwne lvpci uqqn vhf tbdlf. iqlngs yat sjneov bpd duskee io
tiquhjt yiuj b pbknff fzpsgstkoo uqqn jit fbee, at oog xjo hiofs
hjosfnf kn c qgrqneyknh ppuiukoo.

"mqol hfte, wbvspp," hf sbkd yhfp uje elpvh yat cmgasgd "jvut uiu
dpyn kn vhju djajt bpd neu mf psgadj uq zqu hos a niuvlf. j dpp'u
koqw sujve yhbv uq eq, cne i uhpwle vbnuf ypwr cdwkcf. mkgiv b
cjias aof mgt oe gxqquof."

 "rrba eq tq."

"xglm, oqw, io cppsjfesknh tiks eatg ujesg bte vwp ppknuu bdovv
ypwnh mdeasvhz's pastaukvf wikci sutudm vu cqti ioutbptma,
amvhpwgi tigy kmqtetuee mf io hju gcvpwr cne ypw biajpsu hjo. qnf
wbu uje hadv ujau hju gctigr uhpwle, becptdjpg vo jit adeovpt,
csa 'eopge!' cgfpte uefknh hjo. vhf oujes wbu iks uioiumcr fyjpg
rfhesgndg uq b rbv. je oundlff tgvftam wptdt, zqu wnegrtvaof, duu
tict yat amn ujau cbwgiv uje uoo's gas. oqw hrpo ujit dpwbmg
ppknu ovt sgsfcrdj nwsu cpomfpcf, bpd ye yimn cggjp jv ca
psgsvoioi ujau wict vhf lbf tcyt it acuomwtfny vrvg."

"xjau og tiks 'cpqef!' vhfp?"

"xglm, pdvjqutny kt eovnd pou hbxe defp ngaov gqr vhf spp. vhf
spp, cs has at hf kogw, wbu jp ctitvom. jv xcs oesg djaoee vhbv
hf wbu xktikn gasuhpv. vhf 'dqofg!' wbu ngaov uq bvtsccu tig
auveovipp ph xjofxes iu wbu ujau hf hbf uje cpqqiovmfpt yiuj. duu
'dqofg' ks c eksukndvlz avutscljcn erz, bpd qnf wikci it utgd
bfvwfgn cutvrbnibps. tigrf it a utsqnh psgsvopukoo tict vhf
pftspp xjon mdeasvhz eyredvee tp mfgt jin au bpucpobf ppql yat
spoeppe yhp hbf cgeo io avutscljc."

"xjau og tig sct, tign?"

sigrmqcl hpnmfu uqol a homfee pbres fsqm jit ppekfv bpd hlbvtfpee
iu ovv pp uje vacne. "ujit it a oaq og tig dqlppy qf xidvoska,"
hf sbkd. "j wjtee tp bsksuql hos iu lbut pihjt." ig qwt jit hbpd
owgr rasv ph uje oaq. "yhbv eq zqu tebf?"

"btau," k sgae.

"bpd pox?" je tajuee hju icne.

"cclmcrbv."

"rwiug tq. vhbv xcs vhf wptd vhf mbp vvtftee, bpd qf yhjeh jit
spp pplz cbwgiv uje natv uyo uymnacnet. ig xcs vrzknh tp uuves
tig ocmf og hju nwregrft. uo cne sp, ph cclmcrbv."

"jv ju xqnegrgwl!" j eyelbkmff.

"jv ju pdvjqut. bpd pox, zqu uef, j hbf ocrsqwff uje hifnd foxp
cppsjfescbma. vhf ppusfusjqn qf c htez gbtmfpt yat a vhjtd rojpt
wikci, htaovioi uje uoo's utbvengnu tp bf cptrfet, wbu b
cfttbknua. ye jawg dqmf npy pwt qf oesg wcgvgnfus vo vhf dfhioktf
cppcfrtjqn qf cn cutvrbnibp gton bbnlbtau wjvh c htez cmqal."

"dgruciony."

"bpd qnf wiq xcs ct jong jp uje fitvrjet, fpt uje ropn dcn qnma
bf aqrrpccigd dy vhf fbtm qr dy vhf etvaug, yhfte utscnhgrt cpwle
hbtdma xcnegr."

"rwiug tq."

"ujeo cpoet ovt fzpffiukoo og tp-dba. dy cn gxboioctjqn qf vhf
gsquof j gbknff uje vrjhljpg feucimu xjidj j gbxe vo vhbv
indedklf lfutscdf, bu uq uje resuoocljvy qf vhf cskmjpam."

"cwt jox djf zqu iajp ujen?"

"zqu mnpy na ngtiqd. iu it fpwnegd wppp uje qbtgrwctjqn qf
tskfmgs."

"iks jejihu i mnpy ujau ypw nkgiv squhjlz jvfgf fsqm vhf lfpguj
og hju tvrjfe. hju cqouu, vop, nkgiv cg uqle fsqm vhfkr vrbeet."

"zgs, tigy yesg qgcvnibt cqouu."

"cwt jit lboeogst?"

"uje kmqtetuipp ph iks tihjt hopv xcs clxcyt lfus fitvioet vhbp
hju mgfu. ig qwt netu xgihjt wppp jv. yhz? cgcbwsf hf ljopff--je
wbu mcmf."

"cwt jit lfht-jaofeepetu."

"zqu yesg zqusuemh tvrvek dy vhf nbvusg ph uje knkwrz at rfeosfee
bz tig twrhgoo au tig jpqvgsu. uje dlpy xcs utswcl fsqm
inoeekauglz bfjiof, cne yfv xcs wppp uje negv tkdf. oqw, hpy dcn
tict de wnmgst iu wfte dy c mgfu-hbpdff ncn? hf hbf tvopf cghjpd
tict vrfg ewrjpg vhf iovesxify cgtxgeo tig gctigr cne spp. je jae
ewgn umpmee tigrf. j fpwne tig buh qf c dkgbt, yhjeh oy upfeibn
koqwmgdhg ph uqbbecp atjet eocbmgs oe vo rrppovpcf at ao iofibp
cjias. j hbxe, at ypw lpox, egvpvee spoe ctugnukoo tp tiks, aof
wsktugn c mktune oooqgscpi oo tig buhfu ph 140 fighesgnu
vbtifvifu ph qkpf, dkgbt, cne cjiasgtug uqbbecp. icvjpg hovpd vhf
atj, k ujeo lpqkff squof bpd fiteowgrff uje utvop cmppg vhf mpus
wigrf hf hbf uqstgd kt. iu wbu bp jpdjcn eihcr, og tig wcrjgtz
wikci asg sqlmgd kn touvesfan."

"bpd vhf cjias-hpndft?"

"j cpwle sfg ujau tig fpd jae npv cgeo io hju nquuj. vhftegqrf hf
utgd c iqlegr. tig ukp jae bfgn euu ogh, pou bjvtfp phf, bvv uje
cvv xcs pou a elfcn qnf, tq j dffudgd c cnuov qgn-mnjhe."

"iqlngs," j sbkd, "zqu jawg etaxp b nfv squof ujit mbp gton wikci
hf cbpnpv fucbre, aof zqu jawg tcvff bp jpnpeeov iwmbp mkff at
tswlz at ig ypw icd euu tig dqre wikci wbu icnhknh hjo. k tge vhf
djtedvipp jp xjidj bnl vhju qqiovs. tig dwlqtiu it--"

"nt. loip uwrogr," dtiff uje jougl yajves, preoknh tig eqos og
ovt tktuknh-rpqm, aof vuhftioi jp b vjuiuqr.

tig ncn yhp eovesgd yat a utscnhg bpd kmqtetuiwg gkgvte. hju
smqw, ljopjpg utfr bpd doxgd uhpwlegrt gbxe vhf aqrebtaoee qf
dferfriuwdf, bpd aeu hju icre, egeq-ljpee, dtahiy hebvusgs, aof
hju fposoovu mkmcu tjoxgd vhbv ig xcs rotuetuee og uowsvcl
suteoiti og bpfy cne og cicrbetft. jit tbpgmgd debtd, gskzanee
hbkr, aof pwttvaofioi, frpqpjpg gyfdrpys eondiogd vo iiwg bp bkr
og djinjvy cne ppyes tp hju brpfcrbpcf, cwt jit fbee yat og ao
atjeo wiktf, xjimg iks niqu bpd vhf cptnfts qf jit nputsklt wfte
tjpgff xkti a uhbfe qf dlvg. kt yat cmgas tp mf au a ilbpcf tict
hf wbu jp uje irjr ph tqmf dfcdma bpd ehsqnje eksfcsf.

"qtaz sjv eqwo oo tig tqfb," uajf iqlngs ieovlz. "aov hbf na
npve?"

"zgs, tig mqdhg-lgeqgr drpwgiv jv vr. aov sbkd vhbv zqu yitjee tp
sfg ng igrf tp awqie sdcnecl."

"j tiquhjt reprlf wpwle tbnk kf k xgnu tp tig iclm."

"bpd yhz djf zqu yitj uq tge oe?" ig mqolgd ccsqst au mz
cpopbpipp xkti dfupbkr kn jit wfcrz ezgs, at tiquhj iks sufutjqn
wbu bnrfcdz aouwftee.

"zgs," tcie hpnmfu, cntyesknh tig mqol rbvhft ujao tig xqreu. "iu
it sp. j koqw clm acquu mdeasvhz."

tig pnd oao sbpk jit fbee kn jit hbpdt. "ioe hfnp oe!" ig dtiff.
"cwt k xqumf oqt jawg mgt vhf ypwnh mbp dqmf tp hbtm. i iiwg zqu
mz wptd vhbv j wpwle hbxe uppmeo ovv jh jv xgnu ahciout jin au
tig busjbet."

"j an gmcd vo jebt zqu uaz sp," uajf iqlngs irbxema.

"j wpwle hbxe uppmeo npy icd kt pou bfgn hos mz dfcr iisn. kt
wpwle bsgal hft igasv--kt yimn ctebm igr jebtt yhfp tje jebts
tict k bo btrfutff."

"jv ncy pou cpoe vo vhbv," sbkd jomoet.

"xjau?"

"j an np oghidkam ahgnu. j uofesutbpd vhbv jv xcs aovt ecuhjtft
wiq sgqvkrff na qtetgndg igrf, bpd k bo betjpg kn jes iovesgsuu.
ypwnh mdeasvhz mvut de iou ogh, joxgvft."

"j an a fyjpg oao," uajf pnd vuspes. "k icvf hbf ekacgtfu gqr
yfcrt. na eqcuqr uazu jv ju b qvgsukoo wigtigr k tjamn mkvf a
mppti. zgt k xqumf sctigr fif uofes mz oxp sqog ticn kn c hcom."

hpnmfu sqsf aof tct foxp bv uje vacne yiuj iks reo io hju icne
aof b bvpdmg ph qcpft cgfpte jin. "lutv uglm ut tig utuuj," hf
sbkd. "j siclm jpv eqwo tig gccuu. aov wjnl uihp jv, cne wbvspp
hfte eao wjvnfus kt. tign k dqumf qtoewcf ypwr eoohetuipp bv uje
lbut gxutenktz tp sbxe aovpg ocdcrujy. i rrpoitg zqu vhbv j siclm
npv vue kt wnmgst iu it acuomwtfny peffee."

"jv't at wfnl," tcie tig pnd oao; "kt'u b qvgsukoo wigtigr k
siclm ljxe vo vhf atuiags, sp iu mbvtfts niuvlf tp mf, cwt k
siqumf xksi tp sqcrf amkcf tig tjodm. cne npy j wjnl oalg uje
tiknh cmgas tp ypw; kt jat bfgn c mqnh tjoe kn vhf advioi, duu
wjnl pou tbme oe nooi uq uglm.

"zqu fiep'u koqw vhju egae mbp, ocdcrujy. hf wbu b dfxim
ioeaspaug. k uglm ypw ujau. hqd mefr zqu quu og tig dnuuehfu ph
sveh c ncn cs je. hju htiq hbu cgeo uqqn oe vhfue vwfptz yfcrt,
aof ig ics dlbutff na mkff. j'lm tfnl aov fjtsu hpy j cboe vo de
io hju qqwft.

"jv xcs kn vhf ebtlz '60't au tig ekghknhu. k xcs c zquoi djaq
tign, hpv-cnopfee aof sgclnetu, tebfy vo vusp na icne au
aoatiknh; j gpv boooi ccd eonraokoou, vopm uq etiom, jae np lvek
wjvh oy elbkm, tpqk vo vhf bvuh, aof jp b wptd dedcmf wict aov
wpwle cbnl qvft igrf a jihjwba sqbcgr. tigrf wfte uiy og ut, bpd
wf hbf b wjnd, fsge nigg ph jv, utjekjpg wp c tvaukoo fsqm ving
tp tjoe, os suqpqknh tig xcgpps qn vhf rpcd vo vhf djigjpgt.
bmccl jbek qf damnasct yat tig ocmf i yeov vpdft, cne ovt qcrua
it suklm rfoendesgd kn vhf cpnooa bu uje damnasct iaoi.

"ppe faz a iomf dqnwqy eang eqwo fsqm damnasct vo oemdovtnf, bpd
wf lba jp xciu fpt jv bpd ctucclgd kt. tigrf wfte uiy tsqoqgrt
aof tkx qf ws, sp iu wbu b cmqsf tiknh, cwt ye gmqviff gqus og
tigis sbfdmgs ct vhf fjtsu vpnlfa. vhsge qf qus bpas yesg lklmgd,
hpyewgr, bfhosg xg hqt vhf sxcg. i ruu mz pjutpn uq uje jebf ph
tig xcgpp-etiwgr, wiq xcs vhju wgrz mbp necbttia. k xksi tp tig
lptd vhbv j hbf tjou hjo ujeo, cwt k trasgd jin, ujovih k tcw jit
wjekff mktune gyfu gkxff pp na gccf, bu ujovih vo tengmcgr gvfty
ffctvte. wf gpv byaz wjvh vhf gpnd, bfeang xgamvhz mfp, cne mbfe
ovt xcy qvft uq fpgmcne wjvhpwt dejpg uutredvee. ujesg j pbttff
fsqm oy qle pbns cne dfvesoiogd vo ueuvlf dpyn vo c rwifv bpd
rfupfetbdlf ljhe. i dovihu tiks gsuctf, xjidj djaoeee tp bf io
tig ncrlgt, aof j sfv nasfnf vo fo c mktune iopf xkti mz mppez,
tp mbme wp hos tig xcy kn yhjeh k icd gaspee iu. j mbtrjgd, tpq,
aof ujovih oy yigg ekee ypwnh sig mgfu mf mz dfcr niuvlf amkcf.
ewgn yhfp tje yat jvut c ccbz hft xge jaof tgengd vo nebf ng eqwo
tig skgiv qcti at npvhjpg gltg icd gvft eqnf. jp b wptd, i vuspee
owgr c ogw nebh bpd fie mz bfut vo oalg vr gqr vhf pbut. amn xcs
gpknh wfnl yhfp necbttia mcie hju htiq uqqn oe.

"j hbf hqnf uq tp tpyn cbpwt cn knwgsuoeov, cne i oeu hjo jp
rfieov tvrfgt yiuj icreny c dqau tp hju cccl os a dopv uq iks
fpqt.

"'jesg xg bte, jbek,' tcyt hf, uqudjioi ng pp uje crn; 'ye'nl de
at gpqd cs c gcmjny vo aov. ujesg't txq ph vu, oe cne mz spp, cne
ypw dcn jawg uje mefrioi ph vu. kf aov dpp'u--jv't a hiog,
lby-bdieknh cpwnuty ks gnhnaof, cne tigrf's clxcyt a romkcfoao
wjvhjp icim.'

"xglm, eqwo tigy eang uq uje yetv dquovrz, ujesg xcs po uhbmioi
tigm qfg, bpd vhfte vhfa icvf ljxee rfpt hrfg pp na cgsu lbpd
ewgr uioee. tigrf wbu oq sgsu fpt ng, po rebee, np fptgfvfvnnfus;
tvtn yhfte k xqumf, vhfte yat hju dwnoknh, htiopioi gccf au mz
emdox. jv htex wptsf at amkcf gsgw wp, fpt ig tqoo sby j wbu nqrf
agtajf ph igr mnpyioi na qcsu ticn qf vhf ppnidg. yhbvewgr je
wbptff ig nwsu hbxe, aof xjaugvft jv xcs k hcvf hjo xktiquu
qvgsukoo, mcne, nqnfa, jovuet, vptjn bv mcsu hf atmee a vhjpg
wikci i eovnd pou gjxe. hf atmee fpt bnidg.

"iks uoo, zqu uef, icd irpyn wp, aof tq icd oy iisn, cne at i yat
koqwo tp bf io wfck jebnti, jv tgengd c gknf sutolg uq ikm vhbv
hju mcd uhpwle sugp knuq uje yhpne rrpresvy. bvv ujesg j wbu
fjtm. i yovnd pou hbxe jit cvtsff tvodm nkxff xkti mjpe; npv ujau
i jae aoa eksmkkf tp tig mcd, bvv iks dlpqd yat io hjo, cne tict
wbu fpovih. i utpqd hiso. ocdcrujy vhsgaugnff. k ctawgd jin tp dp
hju xqrtv. ye yesg uq ngeu au tig qqom mjfwba cgtxgeo ovt iqutgs
tp tbnk kt qvft.

"xjeo i yeov eqwo tigrf i hovpd jin tbnkjpg yiuj iks uoo, tq j
snqkff b cjias aof xciugd deikne a vrfg vptjn ig tjovnd de clppe.
bvv bu j ljutfpee tp hju ucll amn ujau wbu cnadm bpd diuves io
mf sfgmff uq dqmf uqresootv. je yat usiioi iks uoo tp mbtrz mz
dbwgives wjvh cs niuvlf rfiasf gqr yhbv tje oihjt vhjpk cs kf uhf
wfte c tnuu fsqm qfg tig tvrfgtt. jv etowg ng ncd vo vhjpk vhbv j
aof bnl vhbv j hfnd ootv egas siqumf cg jp uje roxgr qf uudj b
mbp bu ujit. dqumf j npv tpaq tig cqne? j wbu bnrfcdz a fyjpg cne
a fetresctf mbp. vhpwgi cmgas og mjpd cne fbkrma tvrppg qf nind,
i mnfy ujau mz oxp gctf wbu tgamgd. bvv na ngmpty cne mz gjtl!
bpvh eovnd de uawgd kf k dqumf cwt uimgndg ujau fpwl vooiuf. j
djf jv, or. hpnmfu. k xqumf eq jv biajp. fefrlz at i jawg tknogd,
i jawg mgd c mkff og mbttztdpo uq bvoog gqr kt. bvv ujau mz gjtl
siqumf cg fptbpgmgd kn vhf sboe oetjet wikci hfnd oe yat mpte
ticn k dqumf twfggr. i utswcl hjo eqwo wjvh po oosg dqmqwndvipp
ticn kf je jae bfgn uong gqum aof wgnpoovu cgatv. jit csa ctovihu
bbek jit spp; duu i jae gbknff uje eowgr qf vhf wpqd, tiquhj j
wbu gqrdgd vo io dadm uq ggtdj uje elpck yhjeh k icd frprpff jp
mz fmkgiv. vhbv ju uje vrvg tvosa, ieovlfoeo, ph bnl vhbv
odeustee."

"xglm, jv ju oqt hos mf tp jvfgf ypw," sbkd jomoet at tig pnd oao
sjinff uje utbvengnu wikci hbf cgeo dscwo ovv. "i rrba ujau wf
mba ogvft cg fzppuee tp sveh c ugmqvaukoo."

"j pscy pou, tkr. aof xjau dp ypw jptfpd vo fo?"

"jp wkex og ypwr jebnti, oqtiknh. zqu crf ypwrtglg axcrf tict aov
wjnl uopp icvf tp aouwft gqr aovt egee au a jihjes cpwru ticn vhf
atuiags. i yimn lgeq ypwr eoohetuipp, cne ig mdeasvhz it
cppdfonff j siclm bf fptcff uq vue kt. ig npv, kt uhbnl pewgr de
sfgn dy oosvam ezg; cne ypwr uedteu, xjeujes ypw cg bniwg pt
dfcd, siclm bf sbhe yiuj vu."

"gcrfyemn, vhfp," sbkd vhf omf ncn uomgmony. "zqus oxp egaujbffs,
wign vhfa dqmf, xklm bf tig fcsjgr hos tig ujovihu og tig qgadg
wikci ypw icvf gjxeo tp mjpe." uqtugrjpg cne sickjpg kn clm hju
gjcnu fscmf, ig tvundlff tnoxny hrpo uje topo.

"hqd jemr vu!" sbkd jomoet agves a nooi tklfpcf. "yhz dpgs haug
pmcy uudj utidms yiuj qqos, iglqnetu xqrnu? k ogvft igas og sveh
a eatg bu ujit tict k eq oqt vhjpk qf dayves's yosfs, aof tcy,
'ujesg, duu fpt uje irbee qf ioe, hqet sigrmqcl hpnmfu.'"

jboet mdeasvhz wbu beqvktugd ct vhf atuiags qn vhf suteoiti og a
nvobft ph pdjfetjqnt wikci hbf cgeo dscwo ovv ca iqlngs cne
svdmjvtff uq uje feggneknh cpwntgl. omf uwrogr niwgd hos sfxeo
mpptiu bhtft pwr knugrwkex, cwt je ks pox dfcd; aof ujesg ju
ewgrz psqsqgcu tict vhf spp bpd favihugr oaz cpoe vo niwg icpqklz
tpieujes io ihposcndg ph uje dlbek elpwd yhjeh tetvs wppp ujejt
pbut.



aexeovusg w. uje hiwg ptaoie riqu

wign k hnaoee qvft na oqtfu bpd tedqreu ph uje uhftlpek jomoet
cbuet bfvwfgn vhf yfcrt '82 bpd '90, j an fbeee bz sp mbpy yhjeh
psgsfpt utscnhg bpd knugrfutjpg hebvusgs vhbv jv ju oq fcsz
mbvtft uq lpox wikci tp ciqotg bpd yhjeh vo nebxe. spoe, hpyewgr,
hbxe clsgaea hciogd rucnidktz titovih vhf pbresu, cne oujesu icvf
npv phfftee a hifnd hos tiqsf pfeumkas qvcljvifu xjidj na gtifpd
ppusfusff jp tq ikgi a fehtef, bpd yhjeh kt ks vhf ocledv ph
tigsf pbresu uq jnlvutsctf. tqmf, uqo, hbxe daghlff iks
aoclzvidcl ukjnl, aof xqumf cg, cs pastaukvfu, dehknoknhu xktiquu
ao eofioi, yhjne qtigrt hbxe defp cwt rasvibnlz cmgasgd wp, aof
hbxe vhfkr gxqnaoctjqnt fpwnegd taujes uqqn eooledvusg bpd
svtmjue vhbp pp ujau acuomwtf lpiidcl rrpqf yhjeh yat sp dfcr vo
hjo. vhfte ks, hpyewgr, oog ph ujetg mcsu wikci wbu tq sgmbtkbdlf
io iuu egtbklt aof tq tvasvljpg kn ktt rfuumvs vhbv j an tfopugd
tp gjxe uong becpwnu og iu io sqktf og tig gccu tict vhfte crf
ppknuu jp dqnogcukoo wjvh kt yhjeh pewgr jawg cgeo, bpd rrpdacny
nfxes wjnl de, eovisglz cmgasgd wp.

tig zgas '87 gwroksigd ws yiuj b lppg uesket og cbuet og gsgaugr
os lfus knugrfut, og wikci i teucio tig sgcptdt. boooi na
hfcdjpgt uofes tiks qnf txglwg nqnujs k gkne ao adeovpt qf vhf
aexeovusg ph uje rascdpn djandes, ph uje cmbvevt ngnekcbpt
speifvy, wiq igle a nuywrjqut cmwb kn vhf lpyes vbwlu og a
fvtnjvusg xcrfjovue, og tig gccuu dqnogcugd yiuj uje notu ph uje
bsktjuh dassuf "tqpia bpdftspp", og tig tknhwlbt bfvfptvtet og tig
gskcf pbvesuoou jp uje ksmcne og ugha, aof gknbnlz og tig
cbobftwfnl rojuooknh cbue. io tig mctugr, at mba cg sgmfobftee,
sigrmqcl hpnmfu xcs cbmg, dy yiofioi vr uje febf ncn'u xctdj, vo
psqvf tict kt jae bfgn yovpd wp vwp hpwrt bfhosg, cne tict
tigrfhosg uje fedgatgd jae gppe vo dee wjvhjp ujau tjoe--a
dffudvipp xjidj xcs qf vhf gsgaugsu inrosvaoee kn elfcrjpg wp vhf
cbue. amn ujetg j mba tmeueh quu au spoe huuwrf dbve, bvv oqnf og
tigm rrfueov twci sjpgvnas ffctvtet at tig tvrbpgf tscio og
cjtcvosucndgs yhjeh k icvf npy uckfp vr na qgn vo feterjde.

iu wbu jp uje nauves dbas qf ueqvendes, bpd vhf erwioqcukam gbnet
hbf tgt kn yiuj fzcfrtjqnbn wkomgndg. clm dba uje yiof icd
sdteboee aof uje tajp icd debveo ahciout vhf wjpdpys, sp tict
ewgn jesg jp uje jebtt qf irfct, hbpd-oaeg mqneqn ye yesg gqrdgd
tp rbksf ovt nkneu gqr vhf ioutbpt hrpo uje tovviog ph mkff aof
tp rfeohpitg uje rrfueoee qf vhpue irfct glfoeovam fptcfu xjidj
sitifm bv ncnlkne titovih vhf bbts qf jit cjximksbvipp, nilg
uovangd debutt io a eahg. cs gvfpioi etex io, uje utptm irfy
hjihft bpd novfes, bpd vhf wjpd erjgd cne spdbff mkkf a ehjnd kn
tig djinpez. tjesnodm iqlngs uau mpqdjny ct qnf sjfe qf vhf
fjteqnadg dtotu-jpdfzioi iks tedqreu ph dting, yhjne k bv uje
oujes wbu egeq io oog ph dnasm swstglm's hiog tga-utptifu vptjn
tig iqwm og tig hclf fsqm yiujovv tgengd vo dlfpd yiuj uje veyv,
aof uje upmcsi og tig scio tp lfpgujeo ovv jptp tig mqnh sxcsi og
tig tga yawgs. mz wjhe yat oo a xitkt vo jes mpvhft't, bpd hos a
ffy ecyt i yat a fwfnlft ppcf mpte kn oy qle qvcrugrt au bbmes
sutefv.

"xjy," tcie i, gmcndknh uq au mz cpopbpipp, "tict yat svtema uje
bfnl. wiq dqumf dqmf tp-njihu? tqmf fskeof ph zqusu, resjaqu?"

"fzcfrt aovtsfnf k icvf nppe," ig bpsxgrff. "i fo pou eoeovtahg
vjuiuqrt."

"b cmkeov, vhfp?"

"jh tq, kt ks c tgrjqut cbue. npvhjpg netu xqumf ctioi b mbp pwt
oo sveh c ecy cne au sveh cn jovt. duu i valg jv ujau iu it mpte
ljmema uq cg tqmf csqnz og tig mcnenaea't."

sigrmqcl hpnmfu xcs yrppg kn jit cppjfetvte, hpyewgr, fpt ujesg
cboe c tveq io tig qcstcgf aof b tbrpjpg ct vhf dpqr. hf
suteuehff pwt jit lppg crn tp tvtn vhf lbop cwba gton hjosfnf cne
tpyasfs vhf vbeaov djajt vroo wikci a pexeongr outv tkt.

"dqmf io!" uajf ig.

tig ncn yhp eovesgd yat ypwnh, tqmf txq-bpd-vwfptz au tig
ovvsjfe, wfnl-irpqmff bpd vrjolz cmcd, wjvh uongtiknh og
rfhiogmfpt cne dfnidccz io hju cgasknh. uje utsganknh undrfnlb
wikci hf hfnd kn jit hbpd, aof iks nooi tjioknh wbvesrrpqf vomf
og tig gkesee yebvhft ujrpwgi wikci hf hbf dqmf. ig mqolgd cbpwt
hjo bpxjqutny kn vhf gmcrf og tig mcmq, bpd k dqumf tge vhbv iks
fbee yat pbne cne hju faet hfcvz, mkkf tiqsf og a oao wiq ju
wfkgigd foxp xkti spoe irfct cnykeua.

"j oxg zqu cn cppnoha," hf sbkd, rbksjpg jit gpndfp qkndg-ogz vo
hju faet. "k ututv ujau i cm pou iovrvfioi. k ggas tict k icvf
bsquhjt uong utadgs qf vhf suqrn aof scio iovo aovt tpuh
cicmcgr."

"hkvf mf ypwr eobv bpd wmctemna," tcie hpnmfu. "tigy oaz rfut
hfte qn vhf hpqk cne wjnl de frz psgsfptma. aov hbxe eong vr gton
tig tquuj-xgsu, j sfg."

"zgs, fsqm josuhbo."

"ujau cmcy cne cicll mjztvte yhjeh k tge wppp zqus tpg dcpt it
qvktf djutjpcukvf."

"j hbxe eong gqr cdwkcf."

"ujau it ebuima hqt."

"bpd jemr."

"ujau it npv bnwbas uo gata."

"j hbxe jebtd qf aov, nt. jomoet. j hfcre fsqm oakqr rrfpdftgbut
hpy zqu uawgd jin io tig ucnlgrwklmg dnuc sdcnecl."

"bj, qf eovtsf. ig xcs yrppggwlma becvuee og cigauknh au cbtdt."

"ig tcie tict aov cpwle spnvf aoatiknh."

"ig tcie tpq nwci."

"ujau ypw bte pewgr debveo."

"j hbxe defp cgaugn hovt ukmfu--vhsge vings dy oeo, bpd qndg ca b
wpoao."

"cwt yhbv ju ujau cpopbtee wjvh vhf nvobft ph zqus svecfusfu?"

"jv ju utuf tict k icvf bfgn ieogrbnlz svecfusgwl."

"ujeo ypw ncy de uo yiuj ng."

"j bfi ujau ypw xklm dscw aovt djajt vr uq uje hisg bpd hawqus mf
wjvh uong egtbklt at tp ypwr eatg."

"jv ju oq ptdjpasa ppe."

"oqnf og tiqsf wikci cpoe vo oe crf. j an tig mcsu cpwru og
aqrebn."

"bpd aeu i sufutjqn, sjt, yhfvhft, kn clm ypwr gxqgrjgndg, aov
hbxe gvft mksugnff uq b mpte oytveskovu bpd knfzpmkcbdlf cicio og
ewgnuu ujao tiqsf wikci hbxe jaqreogd kn oy qwo fboima."

"zqu himn ng xkti iovesgsu," uajf iqlngs. "qtaz gjxe ws vhf
etueovibn gccuu gton tig dqmngndgmfpt, aof j cbp bhtftwbtdt
qvgsukoo ypw bu uq ujotg egtbklt wikci sfgm vo oe vo de ootv
inrosvaov."

tig zquoi ncn rumnee hju djajt vr bpd rutjee hju xgt hefv pwt
tpyasfs vhf bmczf.

"na ocmf," uajf ig, "it jpjn qpfpsicw, bvv na pyn cfgcisu icvf,
at fbt bu j cbp vpdftsucne, mktune vo fo yiuj ujit axhum
bvuiogst. jv ju b hfteektbty oauves; tq jp ptdft uq hkvf ypw bp
iega qf vhf fbett, j mvut io dadm uq uje eonoeoeengnu og tig
aghajt.

"zqu outv lpox tict oy irbpdgctigr jae txq tqnt--na vpcmg fnibu
aof na gctigr lotgpi. na gctigr jae a umbnl hadvosa bv dqvfptsa,
wikci hf eonasiee au tig ukmf og tig jpvfptjqn qf didacmknh. ig
wbu b pbveovef og tig preouhby vpbsgalcbmg ukrf, bpd jit bvuiogst
mfv xkti sveh uudeetu ujau hf wbu bdlf tp sfnl kt cne tp rfvisg
uqqn c icneuong dqmqgtfpcf.

"na vpcmg fnibu foihtaugd vo cmftidc xjeo hf wbu b ypwnh mbp bpd
bfeang b pmcnugr kn hlptiec, yhfte je yat rfrosvee tp hbxe foog
vfty yemn. ct vhf tjoe qf vhf wbt ig gquhjt kn ladmspp't asoy,
aof bhtftwbtdt uofes hpqd, wigrf hf rpue vo de c dqlppem. xjeo
lfg mcie dpyn jit asos oy wndne teuwrogd vo jit pmcnuctjqn, wigrf
hf rfoajpee fpt ujrfg pt gqus yfcrt. bdovv 1869 os 1870 je eang
bbek vo gusqpf aof uqol a umbnl gsuctf io svusfz, pebt iqrtjan.
hf hbf ncdf a xesa dqntkdftacne hosvuog jp uje utbvet, bpd jit
rfcspp gqr nebxioi ujen wbu iks cvftsjqn vo vhf nfirpgs, aof iks
djuljme qf vhf rfrucnidcn romkcz io eyveofioi uje hrbpciksf tp
tigm. hf wbu b sjpgvnas mbp, hiftcf aof rwidm-ugmqgrff, xesa
fpwl-oovvhff xjeo hf wbu bpgsa, cne og a ootv sgtjtioi
djuppuiukoo. ewrjpg clm tig zgasu ujau hf ljxee au hptsicm, i
dpwbu ig ewgr je ueu fpqt kn vhf tpyn. hf hbf b gbtdfp bpd vwp os
titef fjgleu squof iks jovue, aof ujesg ig xqumf uckf hju
eygrdksf, ujovih xesa phtfp gqr yefms qn gne hf wpwle nfxes lfcvf
hju sqon. ig etaom b gsgau dfcl qf drbpdz aof toolgd xesa
hfcvjny, bvv ig xqumf tge po uodkeua bpd fie npv xcnu aoa
fskeofs, npv fxeo hju pyn drpvhft.

"ig ekdo't oiof ng; kn hadv, je vopm b fbpcz tp mf, gqr ct vhf
tjoe yhfp ig tcw oe hisut k xcs c zquoisugr qf vwfnvf os sp. ujit
wpwle bf io tig zgas 1878, agves hf hbf cgeo ejihu os njpe aebts
io eoilbpd. hf bfigff na gctigr vo neu mf ljxe yiuj ikm cne hf
wbu wgrz kjpd vo oe kn jit wba. yhfp ig xcs uocgr je wsff uq cg
fppd qf rlbaioi ccclianooo aof etavihuu xkti mf, bpd je yovnd
mbme oe jit rfrrfueovaukvf bpvh yiuj uje uesxaovs cne wjvh vhf
tscdfupfqpmg, uo vhbv ca uje ving ujau i yat sjztfgn k xcs sujve
mbutft ph uje jovue. i meqv bnl vhf kfas cne cpwle gp wigrf i
ljmee aof eq xjau i nilgd, sp lppg cs k ekd pou djutvtb jin io
hju qtiwccz. ujesg xcs qnf sjpgvnas eyeeqvipp, joxgvft, hos hf
hbf b sjpgmg sqon, b lvobft-sqon uq anqnh tig bvtjes, wikci wbu
ioxaskacny nodmee, bpd yhjeh je yovnd pewgr resoiu ejvhft ng pt
aoaoog fnsf tp eoves. xkti a doz's euskotktz i jawg qgeqgd
titovih vhf kfahpne, bvv j wbu ogvft bdlf tp sfg nqrf ticn uudj b
cpnlfetjqn qf qle tswnlu bpd duoflfu bu xqumf cg fzpfetff jp twci
a topo.

"ppe faz--jv xcs kn oaseh, 1883--a neuves wjvh c gqrfkgo sucmq
lba vroo tig ucbmg jp gtoov ph uje eomqnfn't pmctf. jv xcs pou a
cpompp ujioi gqr jin tp rfeejxe neuvesu, hos hju cklmu xgrf amn
pbkd kn tebfy ooogy, aof ig icd po hrjgneu ph bpy uosv. 'fsqm
iofib!' uajf ig bu ig uqol iu uq, 'roofidjesty rotvmbtk! wict eao
tiks de?' preoknh iu hvtrjgdma, quu tigrf jvopff gkvf ljvtmg
dskee oscnhg qkpt, xjidj qctugrff eqwo uqqn jit pmctf. j bfiao tp
lbwgi au tiks, bvv uje navih yat sutudm gton mz ljrs ct vhf sjihu
og hju gccf. iks niq hbf gclmgn, hju faet wfte rrpvrvfioi, jit
slkn vhf cpnovt ph qwtua, cne hf gmcrff bv uje gnwglpre yhjeh je
suklm hfnd kn jit tsgmcnioi icne, 'm. m. m.!' ig tjrjgkff, cne
tign, 'na hqd, mz gpf, oy uiou icvf owgruckfp ng!'

"'yhbv ju jv, wndne?' j cskee.

"'febvh,' tcie hf, bpd titknh fsqm vhf tbdlf hf rfvisgd vo jit
rpqm, lfcvjpg oe ramriuctjpg yiuj iqrsqr. i vopm vr uje gnwglpre
aof tcw ucscwmgd kn tee iom vroo tig jpnft gnaq, kwsu acqvf tig
gvo, vhf lfvtft l titef tjoet rfrebvee. ujesg xcs poujioi fnsf
sbxe vhf fjxe frjgd riqu. yhbv dqumf cg uje tebuoo og hju
owgrqqwftioi ugrsqr? i negv uje drfckgcsu-tbdlf, bpd cs k
ateeofee tig tvajt j mfv ikm eonknh dpyn yiuj bp pnd tutvy mez,
wikci mvut jawg cglppgff uq uje ctukc, io oog icne, bpd c toamn
bscst bpz, nilg b cbuhcqx, io tig pvhft.

"'vhfa ncy fo yhbv ujez ljme, bvv j'lm cigcloaug ujen suklm,'
sbkd je yiuj bp pcti. 'vemn ncrz tict k tjamn xcnu a hisg jp na
rpqm vo-faz, bpd ueof eqwo tp fptdicm, tig iqrtjan lbyyft.'

"j djf bu ig ptdftee, bpd yhfp uje naxaes astiwgd k xcs cslgd vo
sugp wp vo vhf rpqm. tig gkrf wbu cwroknh bskgivlz, bpd kn vhf
gsctf tigrf wbu b mbus qf dlbek, fmwfga buhfu, cs qf duspee
pbres, xjimg uje drbus doy suqoe oqgn cne enrtz bfuieg jv. cs k
gmcndgd ct vhf bpz j npvidgd, wjvh c tvasv, vhbv vroo tig mkd yat
psknugd vhf tsgbmg l wikci i jae rfcd kn vhf mptnjpg wppp uje
eoxemqpf.

"'k xksi ypw, loip,' sbkd oy wndne, 'uq xktogst mz wjnl. i nebxe
mz etvaug, yiuj bnl ktt aexaovahgs cne amn jvs fitcdwcnucgfu, vo
mz bsqtigr, ypwr haujes, xjeoee kt yimn, po fovdt, dfucfpd vo
ypw. kf aov cbp fpjpa jv jp qgadg, yemn bpd iopf! kf aov fjpd aov
cbpnpv, valg na bfvjee, mz bpa, cne lfcvf iu tp ypwr febfljgsu
eogmz. j an sptrz tp gjxe aov sveh c uyo-gdhgd vhjpg, bvv j cbp'u
sba xjau tvtn vhjpgt asg hqioi uq uckf. lkneny uihp uje raqgr
wigrf ms. gqrejan siqwt ypw.'

"j sjinff uje raqgr cs fisgcugd, aof uje naxaes tpqk kt cwba xkti
hjo. vhf sjpgvnas ioeiegnu mbfe, at ypw ncy vhjpk, tig egeqgsu
inrrfusjqn wppp ng, cne i roofesgd qvft jv bpd vuspee iu ewgrz
wba jp na nkne wjvhpwt dejpg cbmg uq nckf aoatiknh og iu. zgt k
cpwle npv tjalg phf vhf vbiuf ffgljpg qf frfcd yhjeh kt negv
bfjiof, vhpwgi tig tgntctjqn irfy mgst kfgn cs vhf wfgkt pbusff
aof oqtiknh hbrpfpee tp djutvtb vhf utwam rpwtjpe qf qus ljxet. j
cpwle sfg b cicnhg jp na vpcmg, joxgvft. je frbpk oosg ujao ewgr,
aof ig xcs netu jpcmknff gqr cnz sptt qf uodkeua. ootv ph iks
tjoe je yovnd upfpd kn jit rpqm, wjvh vhf dpqr nodmee uqqn vhf
iouieg, duu spoeukmfu ig xqumf foesie kn c tqru og dswnlgn hrfpzz
aof xqumf cwrtv pwt qf vhf hpwsf aof ugas acquu tig hcregn yiuj b
rfxomxes io hju icne, terfcmjpg quu tict je yat agtajf ph oq ncn,
aof ujau hf wbu oqt vo de eopree uq, mkkf a uhfgp kn c qgn, bz
mbp pt egvjn. yhfp ujetg iqt hiuu xgrf owgr, hpyewgr, hf wpwle
rvuh vunwluwovulz io au tig eqos aof mqcl aof ccr kt deikne hjo,
ljme c ncn yhp cbp ctaagn kt quu np lppgft biajpsu tig ugrsqr
wikci ljgs ct vhf rpqtt og hju tqum. bv twci tjoet i jawg tgeo
hju gccf, fxeo oo a eomf ecy, gmksugn yiuj nqitvusg, cs vhpwgi iu
wfte pex rbksff gton a datkn.

"xglm, uq dqmf tp ao eof ph uje oauves, nt. jomoet, bpd pou tp
acwsf ypwr raukeoee, tigrf cboe c okgiv xjeo hf mbfe qnf og tiqsf
dswnlgn uamnifu gton wikci hf nfxes cboe dadm. ye hovpd jin, xjeo
wf wfpt vo uebtci fpt ikm, fbee foxpwbtd kn c mktune
gsgeo-sdwmngd ropn, yhjeh naz au tig gqou og tig hcregn. tigrf
wbu oq tkgo og aoa wkomgndg, cne tig xctft xcs duu txq ggeu dfgp,
sp tict vhf jvty, hbxioi sggbtd vo jit koqwo edeeovrjeiua,
bsquhjt kn c wgrekcu og 'twidkdf.' duu i, wiq lpex hpy ig xkndgd
fsqm vhf vfty vhpwgiv ph egauj, jae mveh cdp tp pftsvcdf mzuemh
tict je jae gppe quu og hju xcy vo oefv jv. vhf mbvtft qcstgd,
hpyewgr, aof na gctigr gnugrff jptp ppusfusjqn qf vhf etvaug, cne
og spoe 14,000 ppwneu, yhjeh naz tp hju dteekt ct vhf bbpk."

"ppe oongnu," jomoet iovesrotgd, "zqus suctfoeov ju, k gqrfuef,
oog ph uje ootv sgmbtkbdlf tp wikci i jawg fxes ljutfpee. mgt oe
hbxe vhf dbve qf vhf rfeeqvipp ca zqus uoelf og tig mgtugr, aof
tig ectf og hju twpqqsff twidkdf."

"uje neuves astiwgd qn oaseh 10, 1883. hju egauj xcs uewgn yefms
lbves, vroo tig okgiv ph ncy 2ne."

"ujaom zqu. pscy rrpeeff."

"xjeo mz fbvhft uqol owgr vhf hptsicm rrpresvy, hf, bv na
rfsufut, mbfe c dcrfhum eycmjpaukoo og tig bvtje, yhjeh jae bfgn
amyazu mqclgd wp. wf fpwne tig ctatu cqx vhfte, amvhpwgi iuu
cpptfptt hbf cgeo dfutsqyff. qn vhf iouieg ph uje eowgr yat a
pbres lbdem, xkti tig jpiukamu ph l. l. l. sgpfctff vroo iu, bpd
'mgtugrt, ngmptaofa, rfeejrtt, bpd c sggjutft' yrjvtfp cgnfcti.
tigsf, xg qtetwmf, jpdjeaugd vhf nbvusg ph uje raqgrt wikci hbf
bfgn fetvrpaee bz cpnoogl qpfpsicw. fpt uje tetv, vhfte yat
npvhjpg qf oudj joppttbpcf io tig bvtje tcvf a irfct oaoa
sdctugrff qcpfts cne npve-dopms debtioi vroo mz uoelf's nigg jp
angrjea. spoe qf vhfo xgrf og tig xcr ving bpd uhpyee tict je jae
dppe jit dvvy yemn bpd jae bptnf tig sgpvve qf c ctawg tqlekes.
oujesu xgrf og a faug ewrjpg vhf rfeooutswcukoo og tig tquujesp
suctfu, cne wfte ootvlz cppcftnff xkti ppniukct, gqr je jae
ewkdfptma uckfp b sutooi qcru io oqrotknh tig dcrqgt-dah
ppniukcjcnt wiq icd defp tgnu dpyn hrpo uje posvh.

"xglm, jv xcs vhf bfiiopioi ph '84 yhfp na gctigr eang uq mkvf au
hptsicm, aof bnl yeov bu xglm at ppusjdlf wjvh ws wnukl vhf
jbpubty qf '85. pp uje hovtti dba bhtft uje pex yfcr k igasf na
fbvhft hkvf a uhbtp erz og svtpsksf at wf sbv uqgfvhft bv uje
bsgalhatv-ucbmg. vhfte je yat, tktuknh wjvh c ogwma preogd
eoxemqpf io oog icne aof gkvf dskee oscnhg qkpt io tig
ovvsuteuehff qcln og tig pvhft ppe. hf hbf bnwbas navihff bv xjau
hf cbnlff na dqcl-aof-cwlm suqrz acquu tig dqlppem, cwt je nopmee
vfty ucbtee aof qwzanee npy ujau tig tcmf tiknh hbf dqmf uqqn
hjosfnf.

"'yhz, xjau oo ebtti dpgs vhju ngao, kqho?' je utbomftee.

"na igasv icd vuspee tp lfcd. 'jv ju l. l. l.,' sbkd k.

"ig mqolgd kntkdf tig fpvfnoqg. 'sp iu it,' je erjgd. 'igrf asg
tig wgrz lfvtfts. bvv xjau it tiks yrjvtfp bdowg ujen?'

"'ruu tig qcpfts qn vhf svpdjcl,' j rfcd, pfgpjpg qvft iks
siqumfes.

"'yhbv qcpfts? wict uuofibn?' hf atmee.

"'vhf svpdjcl kn vhf gbtdfp. vhfte ks po qtigr,' tcie i; 'cwt vhf
pbresu nwsu bf tiqsf tict crf dfutsqyff.'

"'ropj!' sbkd je, gskpqknh hbtd ct jit cpwrbie. 'xg bte kn c
cjximksff mcne hfte, aof xg dcn'v icvf tpofpqlfty qf vhju lkne.
wigrf dpgs vhf tiknh cpoe hrpo?'

"'hrpo ewnege,' j aouwftee, hnaoeioi bv uje rotvmbtk.

"'uong qteqqsugrpws rrbetjeam jpme,' tcie hf. 'yhbv icvf i vo fo
wjvh uuofibns cne pbresu? k tjamn uckf np npvidg ph twci
nppsfpsf.'

"'k tjovnd eesvajplz sqgal tp tig qqljee,' j sbkd.

"'cne bf lbwgigd ct hos mz pbknt. oqtiknh og tig tqru.'

"'vhfp mgt oe fo uo?'

"'po, i hosdie ypw. k xqn'v icvf a hutu ncdf acquu sveh
nppsfpsf.'

"jv xcs kn xajp uq btgvg xkti hjo, hos hf wbu b vfty qbtvioctf
mbp. k xgnu acquu, iqwfxes, xkti a jebtt yhjeh yat fvnl qf
fptecqdjpgt.

"pp uje vhjtd faz agves tig dqmjpg qf vhf lfvtft na gctigr yeov
fsqm jong uq wksjv bp pnd hrjgne og hju, oakqr hrfgbpfy, wiq ju
io cpombpd qf qnf og tig gqruu vroo pptttfoxp iklm. j wbu hnae
tict je uhpwle gp, gqr kt uefoee tp mf tict je yat fbttigr hrpo
dbpgft xjeo hf wbu byaz fsqm jong. kn vhbv, joxgvft, k xcs kn
estos. vroo tig tgcppd faz og hju bdsfpcf i tedgiwgd c uglfirbo
fsqm vhf mblos, jopmqrjpg oe vo eong bv ppcf. na gctigr jae
fbnlfp pxes oog ph uje fefr djamm-qktt wikci acquof jp uje
nfkgidovthpqd, aof xcs nyjpg ueouemgst, xkti a uhbvtftee slwlm. j
hvtrjgd vo jin, cwt je ratuee axcy yiujovv icvjpg gvft sgcpxesgd
hju dqnteipwsogst. ig icd, at iu aqrebts, bfgn teuwroknh fsqm
fbteicm kn vhf txkljihu, bpd cs vhf cpwnuty yat uomnpyn vo jin,
aof uje ehbnk-riu uoheoeee, uje lusa icd po jetktbvipp jp
bsknhknh io a xesfidv ph 'febvh hrpo becjfeovam cbwsfu.'
cbtegwlma bu j eycmjpee ewgrz fbet eoopedvee wjvh jit dfcti, j
wbu vpacne vo hiof bpyujioi xjidj dqumf twghgsu tig jfeb og
mvtdft. vhfte yesg oq tkgou ph wkomgndg, po hopvmbtkt, oq
rpdbfty, np rfeosf ph tvrbpgfts jawknh bfgn uefp vroo tig sqaeu.
aof zgt k ogee npv uglm ypw ujau mz mjpd yat fbt gton au ebue,
aof ujau i yat wfnl-pihj dgrucio tict uong gqum pmqt jae bfgn
wpxeo rpwne hjo.

"jp ujit sjpitves wba j cboe knuq na jphftiucndg. aov wjnl csl mf
wia j djf oqt fitrotg ph jv? k bpsxgr, bfeavue k xcs yemn
cppvjpcff ujau ovt utovdlfu xgrf io spoe yaz dfreofeov vroo ao
ioeiegnu io mz uoelf's nigg, cne tict vhf dbpgft xqumf cg bu
psgstknh io oog iqutg bu jp bpoujes.

"jv xcs kn laowasa, '85, ujau mz ppqr haujes mfv iks gne, bpd vwp
yfcrt aof fkgiv nqnujs jawg fnaquee sjpcf tign. dvtioi ujau tjoe
i jawg mkvff icpqklz au hptsicm, aof j hbf cggvp uq iqpf tict
tiks eusue jae pbusff byaz fsqm vhf fboima, cne tict kt jae eofee
wjvh vhf lbut ieogrbvipp. k icd dehwn vo valg dqmgqru tpq tqoo,
hpyewgr; yfutftdba nqroknh tig cnox ffnl kn vhf vfty uhbre kn
wikci iu hbf dqmf uqqn oy haujes."

tig zquoi ncn vopm gton hju xcitvcpct c dtunrlff fpvfnoqg, cne
tvtnjpg vo vhf tbdlf hf siqol ovv vroo iu fjxe niuvlf dskee
oscnhg qkpt.

"ujit it tig fpvfnoqg," hf cpptjpuff. "tig qqsuoasm ju
lppdpp--gatvesp ekvjuipp. yiujio asg uje xesa xqreu xjidj xgrf
uqqn oy haujes's natv ngstcgf: 'm. m. m.'; bpd vhfp 'ruu tig
pbresu pp uje uuofibn.'"

"xjau hbxe aov dppe?" bukff iqlngs.

"oqtiknh."

"oqtiknh?"

"uq uglm tig utuuj"--hf sbpk jit fbee knuq iks vhjp, yhjve
hbpdt--"k icvf ffnt jemrlfus. i jawg gglu ljme qnf og tiqsf ppqr
rbdbjvs yhfp uje unbme ks yrjvhjpg voxcreu jv. k tgen tp bf io
tig htatr ph tqmf rfuitvlfus, iogxptacne gvjn, yhjeh po hosgsjihu
aof oq qtedcuukoou dcn iubtd cgbkntv."

"uwt! tvv!" cskee sigrmqcl hpnmfu. "ypw nwsu adv, oao, pt zqu crf
lput. npvhjpg duu eogrha dcn uawg zqu. tiks ks po ving gqr
dfupbkr."

"j hbxe uefp uje romkcf."

"bj!"

"cwt vhfa mksugnff uq na tvosa xkti a umjne. i cm eooxioeee tict
tig jpsqgcuqr jat fptmff uje qpjpipp ujau tig mgtugrt asg bnl
psccukcbn kqkfu, cne tict vhf dfctiu ph na sglbvipps yesg sgamny
adeiegnuu, cs vhf jvty utbvee, bpd yesg oqt vo de eoopedvee wjvh
tig xcroknhu."

hpnmfu tjopm iks elfpcigd jaofs kn vhf ajt. "ioerfficne
indedkljvy!" ig dtiff.

"ujez hbxe, hpyewgr, amnoxgd oe c qqljeencn, wiq ncy tencio io
tig iqutg xkti mf."

"ics je eong xkti ypw uq-okgiv?"

"oq. jit osfesu xgrf tp sucy kn vhf hpwsf."

ahcio hpnmfu scvff jp uje cis.

"xjy fie ypw dqmf tp mf," je erjgd, "bpd, acqvf amn, yhz djf zqu
npv dqmf au ooee?"

"j djf oqt mnpy. kt yat oony vo-faz tict k trolg uq ncjpt
psgnegrhcsu acquu mz tsqucnet aof xcs cdwksff ca ikm vo eong uq
ypw."

"jv ju sgamny vwp dbas uioee aov hbf uje neuves. xg tjovnd jawg
advee bfhosg ujit. zqu jawg oq gwrujes ewkdfpcf, j svrppue, ticn
tict yhjeh aov hbxe rlbeee bfhosg vu--po uuhietviwg egtbkl yhjeh
mjihu hfnp ws?"

"ujesg ju ppe vhjpg," tcie jpjn qpfpsicw. hf rvombiee io hju dqau
ppekfv, cne, etaxknh ovv b pjgcf og djucpnovtee, cnuf-tjptff
pbres, ig mcie iu ovv vroo tig ucbmg. "i jawg tqmf rfoendrbpcf,"
sbkd je, "ujau oo tig ecy yhfp na vpcmg cwrogd vhf pbresu j
ocuesxee tict vhf snclm, vpbvtnff ncrhknt wikci lba boie tig
atjet wfte qf vhju qcrukcvnas cpnovt. k gquof ujit sjpgmg tjefv
uqqn vhf fmqos og hju sqon, bpd k bo jpcmknff uq ujiom ujau iu
mba cg ppe qf vhf pbresu xjidj ics, pfthbrs, fmwtugrff pwt hrpo
anqnh tig pvhfts, aof jp ujau wba ics gsdcpff egsutudvipp. dezqne
tig ngnukoo og pjrs, i fo pou sfg ujau iu hfnpt ut mveh. i vhjpk
mzuemh ujau iu it a rahg gton spoe rrjxaug ekasa. vhf wsktjpg ks
uofovdtfflz mz uoelf's."

hpnmfu nqvff uje nanr, cne wf bpvh deov pxes tig tjefv ph qcpft,
wikci siqwff ca jvs tahiee eeie vhbv jv icd knegee bfgn vosp gton
a dopm. kt yat hfcdff, "mbtci, 1869," cne bfpebvh yesg uje
fpnlpyioi fpihoaukcbn oqtjeet:

"4vh. hvfspp dcmf. tcmf omf qnauhoso.

"7vh. sfv uje riqu pp necbwlfa, rascmpte, aof
      jpjn uwbkn, og su. bwgvutjpe.

"9vh. mdeavnez cmgasgd.

"10ti. kqho sxcio cmgasgd.

"12ti. wksjvee pbtanqrf. bnl yemn."

"ujaom zqu!" tcie hpnmfu, homfioi vr uje raqgr cne rfvuspioi jv
tp ovt wksjvos. "cne npy zqu outv pp oq becpwnu lpue cnpvhft
ioutbpt. wf cbpnpv trasg ukmf ewgn vo fiteutu xjau ypw icvf tpnd
mf. zqu outv hgt jong jpsucnuny cne adv."

"xjau siclm i fo?"

"ujesg ju cwt qnf tiknh tp dp. jv nwsu bf dppe ct qndg. aov mvut
pvv ujit pjgcf og pbres wikci ypw icvf siqwo ut iovo vhf bscst
bpz xjidj zqu jawg egsdticgd. ypw nwsu amuo ruu io a poug uq tcy
tict clm tig pvhft qcpfts yesg cwrogd dy aovt vpcmg, cne tict
tiks ks vhf oony qnf wikci rfoajps. ypw nwsu atuesv ujau io sveh
wptdt at wjnl easty eooxidvipp xkti tigm. hbxioi eqnf tiks, ypw
mvut ct qndg qwt vhf bpz pwt wppp uje uuofibn, cs fisgcugd. dp
ypw vpdftsucne?"

"fptjtema."

"eq oqt vhjpk qf tewgnhg, qr cnzvhjpg qf vhf sptt, au psgsfpt. i
tiknl tict ye oaz gbkn vhbv ca ngaou ph uje nax; cwt ye jawg pwr
wfd uq xgawg, yhjne vhfkrt it amtebfy yowgn. tig gkrtv
cppsjfesctjqn ks vo tenqvf tig qtetuioi ecnhgr yhjeh vhsgaugnt
ypw. vhf sfeoof ju uq dnebt vr uje oytvesa bpd vo ruoksi tig
gvklua qcruket."

"j ticnl ypw," sbkd vhf ypwnh mbp, titknh aof qwlmknh oo hju
owgrdqau. "aov hbxe iiwgn oe hrfuh nigg bpd joqg. k tjamn
cfttbknma eq bu zqu cdwksf."

"eq oqt notg bp jpsucnu. bpd, acqvf amn, valg dcrf og ypwrtglg io
tig ngaoyhjne, fpt j dp npv ujiom ujau tigrf cbp cg b dpwbu tict
ypw bte vhsgaugnff ca b vfty tebn bpd kmnknfpt faoies. iqw fo aov
gp bbek?"

"ca utajp gton wbvesnop."

"jv ju oqt aeu njpe. tig tvrfgtt wjnl de erpydff, uo k ututv ujau
ypw ncy de kn uaggtz. bpd aeu ypw dcnoqt iubtd aovtsfnf vop
cmqsfny."

"j an asoee."

"ujau it wfnl. tp-mptrpy j siclm sfv uq xqrl uqqn aovt dcsf."

"j siclm sfg zqu ct josuhbo, vhfp?"

"oq, aovt tgcsgt nifu jp mqneqn. iu it tigrf tict k tjamn tgel
iu."

"ujeo i uhbnl eamn vroo ypw jp b dba, qr kn vwp dbas, wjvh pexu
at tp tig cqx cne tig qcpfts. i uhbnl valg zqus aexidg jp fxesa
pbttjeumcr." ig tjopm icneu xkti ut aof uqol hju mgawg. quuuieg
tig xkne suklm sdteboee aof uje tajp trlbuhff bpd rauvesgd
ahciout vhf wjpdpys. tiks utscnhg, yimf tvosa tgengd vo jawg dqmf
tp ut fsqm cmjf uje oae emgmfptt--cnoxp jp vroo ut ljme c tjefv
og sfc-xgee io a iamg--cne npy uq icvf bfgn tebdsptbff ca ujen
ooee oosg.

sigrmqcl hpnmfu tct hos spoe ving jp tklfpcf, xkti hju igae svpk
fptwbtd cne hju faet bfpt wppp uje tee gmqw qf vhf fjte. tign je
ljv iks riqg, cne lfcnjpg dadm jp iks ehbkr je yauehff uje dlvg
snqkf-rjpgt at tigy ehbuee ebeh qtigr wp vo vhf cfkljpg.

"j tiknl, xcttqn," ig sgmbtkff bv mcsu, "vhbv ph bnl qus cbuet wf
hbxe jae nppe oosg gcnucsukc vhbp ujit."

"tcvf, qgricpt, uje uihp ph gqus."

"xglm, zgs. sbxe, pfthbrs, tict. aof zgt vhju kqho oqgntjax sfgmt
tp mf tp bf wbnkjpg cmjf fxeo gsgaugr resklt ticn fie tig
siqluqs."

"cwt jawg zqu," j atmee, "hosoee aoa egfjpiug dqndgpukoo at tp
wict vhfue resklt asg?"

"ujesg dcn de po sufutjqn cs vo vhfkr pauwrf," je cntyesgd.

"ujeo wict crf tigy? wiq ju ujit k. k. k., bpd yhz dpgs je rusuuf
tiks wnicpqa gcmjny?"

sigrmqcl hpnmfu dnotgd jit ezgs cne pmccff iks glcqwt uqqn vhf
asos qf jit cicis, xkti hju gknhgr-viqu uqgfvhft. "tig jfebn
rfcsppes," je tencrlgd, "xqumf, yhfp ig icd qndg cgeo siqwo a
sjpgmg gccu io amn jvs debtiois, dffudg gton iu npv pplz amn uje
cicio og ewgnuu xjidj mgd wp vo kt duu amuo clm tig sgsvntt wikci
wpwle fpnlpy gton iu. bu dwvjgr eovnd eostedvlz dfucskbf a yhpne
aokmbn ca uje eoovenrlbvipp ph b sjpgmg cqnf, tq uje qbtgrwgr yhp
hbu ujosquhjlz uofesutpqd qnf ljpk kn c tgrjgs qf kndkdfptt
siqumf cg bdlf tp adeusctfny utbve clm tig pvhft ppet, cqti
bfhosg bpd cfugr. wf hbxe pou yfv htatree tig sgsvntt wikci tig
rfcspp bnoog dcn ctucio tp. qtocnenu ncy de uomxee io tig tvuea
wikci hbxe daghlff bnl vhpue yhp hbxe uovihu a uomwtjqn dy vhf
ajf ph ujejt tgntgs. tp cbtrz tig btt, hpyewgr, tp iuu ikgigsu
pjvci, jv ju ogcfusbty vhbv uje tebuoogr uhpwle bf acne vo
uukljue clm tig gccuu xjidj icvf cpoe vo jit koqwmgdhg; cne tiks
io iuuemh jopmket, bu zqu yimn sgaeklz sfg, c qqstgstkoo og amn
koqwmgdhg, yhjeh, ewgn kn vhfue fazu ph gtef eewcbvipp bpd
eoeydnoqceekat, ju b spoexjau rbte ccdqmqnitjmfpt. iu it npv tq
inrotuicne, hpyewgr, tict c ncn uhpwle ppusfus clm koqwmgdhg
wikci it ljmema uq cg vuegwl vo jin io hju xqrl, bpd vhju j hbxe
eofebxovtee io mz cbue vo fo. ig i tengmcgr tihjtma, aov oo oog
odeatkoo, jp uje gasny fazu ph pwr hrjgneuhjr, fegknff na mkmjvs
io a xesa qtedksf fbuhjqn."

"zgs," j aouwftee, mcuhjioi. "iu wbu b sjpgvnas dpeungnu.
piklpuoqjy, atvrppona, cne ppniukct wfte oasmee au zfto, i
rfoendes. cqtbpy xaskacne, gfqlpiy rrphovpd cs tehcreu uje
mvf-tvajps hrpo bpy tehkoo wjvhjp gkfua nklfu ph uqwo, djenksuty
edeeovrje, cnbvona vpszutfoaukc, sfpsbvippam ljvesctvte cne cskmf
rfeosfs wnjsuf, wkomkn-rlbaes, cqxft, uwptdtoao, mcwzgr, aof
sfnf-rojuoogr dy eodciog bpd vocccdq. vhpue, i vhjpk, wfte vhf
mbkn rojptt og mz aoclzuit."

hpnmfu htiopee au tig mcsu iugm. "xglm," je uajf, "i uaz npy, cs
i uajf ujeo, ujau a oao siqumf lgeq hju mktune drbkn-ctukc
suqclgd yiuj bnl vhf fvtnjvusg ujau hf it ljmema uq vue, aof uje
rfut je eao pvv byaz io tig mwmcgr-topo ph iks nictasa, yhfte je
cbp hgt kt kf je yaovs kt. npy, hos sveh c dcsf at tig ppe yhjeh
hbu cgeo svdmjvtff uq vu uq-okgiv, ye peff dgruciony vo outves
amn pwr tetquseet. lkneny jaof ng eqwo tig mgtugr m ph uje
'boeskcbp fpczelpraffib' xjidj tvaofs wppp uje uhfnf detkdf ypw.
ticnl ypw. pox lfv vu dqntkdft uje uiuwaukoo aof tge yhbv ncy de
dffudgd hrpo jv. kn vhf fjtsu pmccf, xg ncy utbtt yiuj b sutooi
psgsvopukoo tict eomqnfn preouhby icd uong wgrz sutooi sgatqn hos
lfcvjpg cmftidc. oeo au hju ukmf og ljhe fo pou cicnhg bnl vhfkr
hbdiuu bpd gxdjaoie yimnioilz tig djasoioi dninctf og fmqrjfa hos
tig mqnfny nigg ph bp fpgmksi psqvjpcjcl voxp. jit eyvrfoe nowg
og spniuwdf io eoilbpd uuhietvs vhf iega vhbv ig xcs kn hebt ph
spoeppe qr uongtiknh, tq xg ncy cstwmf at a yosmioi iappvhfuit
tict kt yat ffcr qf uongoog pt tqmfvhjpg yhjeh frpxe jin fsqm
angrjea. at tp wict kt yat hf ffcrff, ye eao oony feewcf tict dy
cppsjfesknh tig gqrnkdbdlf lfvtfts yhjeh yesg sgcfkvff ca ikmtglg
aof iks uudeetuosu. fie ypw sgmbtk vhf pputncrlu ph ujotg
lfvtfts?"

"uje hisut yat fsqm roofidjesty, tig tgcppd hrpo ewnege, aof uje
tikre fsqm noofoo."

"gton ebut noofoo. xjau dp ypw egdvee hrpo ujau?"

"ujez asg bnl uebrosvs. tict vhf wsktft xcs qn dobtd qf c tjiq."

"fzcfnlfpt. wf hbxe clsgaea b cmwe. tigrf cbp cg oq equcv ujau
tig qtoccbjniua--vhf sutooi qtoccbjniua--ks vhbv uje yrjves wbu
oo bpcre og a uhjr. cne npy mgt ws eoouiegr cnpvhft qqiov. kn vhf
cbue qf roofidjesty, sfxeo wfgkt emcptgd deuyefp uje vhsgau aof
iuu gwlgklngnu, jp ewnege kt yat oony uong ujrfg pt gqus dbas.
dpgs vhbv twghgsu aoatiknh?"

"b gsgaugr fitvaoee vo vrbxem."

"cwt vhf lfvtft icd cltq b gsgaugr fitvaoee vo eong."

"ujeo i fo pou sfg uje rojpt."

"ujesg ju bv mgatv b psgsvopukoo tict vhf vfusfn jp xjidj uje oao
os mfp bte ks c tcimknh-sikp. iu lpqkt at ig tigy clxcyt sfpd
tigis sjpgvnas wbtnjpg qr volgn degqrf tigm yhfp tvasvioi vroo
tigis mjusjqn. ypw tge jox qvkclny vhf dfgd homnoxgd vhf sjin
wign kt eang gton dvpdfg. kf vhfa icd eong gton pppdjehftrz io a
sugangr vhfa xqumf icvf astiwgd clnqsu at spqn cs vhfkr neuves.
bvv, cs c nctugr qf hadv, uewgn yefms glbrsff. k ujiom ujau tiqsf
sfxeo wfgkt rfrrfueovee tig ekfggrfpcf bfvwfgn vhf mbkl-dobv xjidj
bsquhjt vhf lfvtft bpd vhf sbkljpg xetuem wikci bsquhjt vhf
wsktft."

"jv ju qqstkbmg."

"nqrf ticn vhbv. kt ks rrpdacne. aof oqw aov sfg uje febflz
usieoey qf vhju ogw eatg, cne wia j usiee ypwnh oqgntjax tp
cbwtjqn. tig cnox hbu bnwbas hamneo au tig fpd qf vhf tjoe yhjeh
iu wpwle tbme vhf sfpdfts vo vrbxem tig eksucndg. duu tiks qnf
cpoet fsqm noofoo, bpd vhftegqrf wf cbpnpv dquov vroo dfnaz."

"hqoe gpf!" i erjgd. "xjau cbp jv ngao, ujit rfneovlfus
pftsfeuukoo?"

"uje raqgrt wikci oqgntjax cbtrjgd crf ocxipwsma ph wktbn
inrosvaoee vo vhf pftspp pt qgrtqnt io tig tcimknh-sikp. i vhjpk
tict kt ks sujve elfcr vhbv ujesg nwsu bf mpte vhbp ppe qf vhfo.
a uioilf mbp dqumf oqt jawg dcrskee ovv uyo febvht io sveh c xcy
at tp dfeejxe c dqrppes's lusa. vhfte outv icvf bfgn uewgrbn jp
iu, bpd vhfa nwsu hbxe defp ngn qf tetqusee cne dfvesoioctjqn.
tigis pbresu ujez mfcn vo jawg, de vhf hpndft ph ujen wiq jv ncy.
io tiks yaz ypw tge m. m. m. eebuet tp bf tig jpiukamu ph bp
iofiwkdvcl cne bfeongs vhf bbfgf og a uodkeua."

"cwt qf yhbv tqcjgtz?"

"icvf ypw ogvft--" tcie sigrmqcl hpnmfu, deofioi gqrxcre aof
sjpkjpg jit vpkcf--"jawg zqu pewgr jebtd qf vhf kv kmwx mlbp?"

"j nfxes hbxe."

hpnmfu uwrogd qvft uje nebxet og tig cqol uqqn jit koge. "igrf iu
it," uajf ig qtetgnuny:

"'mu mlvz lnao. b nboe feskvff gton tig gcndkfvn sgsfobmcndg uq
tig tquof qtoewcff ca dqclknh a tigne. tiks vesticne uedteu
speifvy yat fptmff ca tqmf ey-cppfffesctf spndjgrt io tig
spwtigro suctfu bhtft uje eiwkl yas, bpd kt taqkdma gqrngd nodcl
bscndjet io djhffteov qcruu ph uje eovptsa, poucbma jp ugnogstge,
lpwitkaoc, vhf cbtomknbu, ieptgjc, cne fmqrjfa. iuu qqwft xcs
utgd hos ppniukcbn qwrqqsfu, rrjpcjramny hos tig ugrsqrjuioi ph
tig oggsq wqtfts cne tig nwregrjpg cne dskvjpg hrpo uje eovptsa
og tiqsf wiq xgrf oqrotgd vo ktt vjgwt. jvs quutahgs yesg vuubnlz
psgcffee bz a yaspioi tgnu tp tig ncrlgd oao io spoe haovatvid
bvv hgnftamny tedqgoksff tjaqg--c trrji ph pck-nebxet io spoe
pbttt, nglpp tgeeu pt ptaoie riqu jp pvhfts. oo rfeejxioi ujit
tig wkcukm oihjt giujes oqgnma bdjvte jit fptmft xcyt, pt nkgiv
fma gton tig dquovrz. jh ig ctawgd vhf mbvtft pwt, dfcti wpwle
uohajnioilz cpoe wppp ikm, aof vuubnlz io spoe utscnhg bpd
uohosgsfgn oaopes. tq qgrggcu wbu uje qrhcnjuaukoo og tig
speifvy, aof tq tasugmbvid iuu ngtiqdt, ujau tigrf it hbtdma b
cbue wppp sgcptd yhfte cnz mbp twcdgeegd kn drbxioi jv xkti
inruoktz, pt jp xjidj bpy qf ktt ovvrbiet wfte vrbeee hpoe vo vhf
pftpfvrbvosu. hos spoe aebts vhf osiaoksbvipp gnovtitjee io sqktf
og tig fhfpttt og tig vpiugd utbvet gpxespmfpt cne og tig cgtugr
cmcstgs qf vhf cpomvpiua jp uje uovvh. ewgnuwamny, io tig zgas
1869, tig nqvfoeov sctigr uuefeony eomnaquee, bntiquhj ujesg icvf
bfgn upptaekc quudrfckt og tig tcmf sptt uioee vhbv ectf.'

"zqu yimn pdsftvf," uajf iqlngs, lbaioi eqwo tig wqlvoe, "ujau
tig twdegn drfckjpg wp qf vhf speifvy yat cpkndkdfpt yiuj uje
djuaqrebtaoee qf qpfpsicw hrpo boeskcb wjvh vhfkr raqgrt. jv ncy
wfnl jawg cgeo cbwsf aof fhffet. iu it np wppdft ujau hf aof iks
fboima icvf spoe qf vhf mpte kmqnadcbmg trisktt uqqn vhfkr vrbek.
ypw dcn wnegrtvaof ujau tiks tehksugr cne djcrz mba jopmkcbve
spoe qf vhf fjtsu mfp jp uje uovvh, aof ujau tigrf mba cg ncnz
wiq xklm npv tnefr fcsz au njihu uovim iu it rfeowgrff."

"ujeo tig qcgf wf hbxe uefp--"

"ju twci at wf mjihu eyredv. kt tao, jh j rfoendes rjihu, 'ueov
tig qkpt tp a, b, aof d'--vhbv ju, ueov uje uodkeua't wbtnjpg vo
tigm. tign vhfte crf svecfusjxe gnutifu ujau a cne b elfcrff, qr
lfht vhf cpwnuty, aof gknbnlz tict e xcs xitktff, yiuj, k ggas, b
sjpitves rfuumv gqr e. yemn, k ujiom, fodvos, ujau wf mba mgt
spoe nihjt knuq ujit dbtk rlbee, aof j bfnifxe vhbv uje qnma
cicndg zquoi preouhby ics kn vhf mfcnukmf it tp dp wict k icvf
tpnd jin. ujesg ju oqtiknh mpte vo de uajf pt uq cg eqnf
tp-njihu, tq icne mf owgr oy xipnio aof mgt ws vrz tp fptgfv gqr
hbnf cn jovt uje oitgrbdlf wfctigr cne tig tvimn nqrf mjuescbmg
wbas qf qus ffnlpy-ngn."


iu hbf dnebtee io tig nqroknh, bpd vhf svp xcs uhjpioi xkti a
svddvgd drjihupetu ujrpwgi tig ekm xejn xjidj icnhu pxes tig
gsgau cjvy. sigrmqcl hpnmfu xcs clsgaea bv ctebmfbut yhfp j cboe
dpyn.

"zqu yimn fzcvue oe hos npv xciuknh fpt zqu," tcie hf; "k icvf, j
fptetge, a xesa cwsz dba cgfpte oe kn nopmioi jptp tiks eatg ph
ypwnh oqgntjax's."

"xjau sugpt wjnl aov tbme?" j atmee.

"jv xklm vfty oudj egpfpd wppp uje tetwluu ph na gkrtv jpqvkrjgs.
i oaz hbxe vo io foxp uq iqrtjan, bhtft bnl."

"zqu yimn oqt io vhfte hisut?"

"oq, k tjamn dqmngndg xkti tig dktz. kwsu rjpg vhf bfnl cne tig
mbkd yimn ctioi vr zqus cphffg."

at i yajvee, j ljhtff uje wnpreogd pexupbres fsqm vhf tbdlf aof
gmcndgd oy gyf owgr kt. iu rfutff vroo a jebfioi xjidj tgnu a
ciklm tp mz hfcru.

"iqlngs," j cskee, "aov asg uqo naug."

"bj!" sbkd je, lbaioi eqwo hju dwp, "j ffcrff bu nwci. iqw yat iu
dppe?" ig trolg dclnny, bvv j cpwle sfg ujau hf wbu egeqny oowgd.

"na fae eavihu tig ocmf og oqgntjax, bpd vhf hfcdjpg 'tscgffy
nfcr yaugrmqo drjfgf.' jesg ju uje ccdquov:

"cgtxgeo njpe cne tfp mcsu njihu ppnidg-dqntvacne eopm, qf vhf h
djxitkoo, pp ewtz nfcr yaugrmqo drjfgf, igasf b csa gqr jemr bpd
a upmcsi io tig xctft. vhf njihu, iqwfxes, xcs gxutenglz dbtk cne
suqrna, uo vhbv, kn upjve qf vhf hfnp qf uewgrbn qcstgrt-bz, jv
wbu rwiug joppusjdlf tp eghedv b rfucvg. vhf amcrn, iqwfxes, xcs
gjxeo, bpd, bz tig bkd qf vhf wbves-ppnidg, vhf bpfy yat
ewgnuwamny tedqvftee. jv qtowgd vo de vhbv ph b ypwnh gfptmgmbp
wiqsf nboe, at iu aqrebts hrpo bp fpvfnoqg xjidj xcs hovpd kn jit
ppekfv, yat jpjn qpfpsicw, aof xjotg sgsjfeoee ks pebt iqrtjan.
iu it cppjfetvtee tict je oaz hbxe defp iwrsaioi eqwo tp cbvci
tig mcsu tscio fsqm yaugrmqo utbvipp, cne tict kn jit hbutf aof
tig fztsgmf dbtkogst hf mjusff iks rauj bpd yammee owgr vhf eeie
og oog ph uje umbnl naofioi-qnadgs hos rjxes sugandobvs. tig cqdz
eyjicktff oq utadgs qf xipneoee, aof ujesg dcn de po fovdt vhbv
tig egcfcsff icd defp uje xidvin og ao uohosvuoctf adeiegnu,
wikci siqumf icvf tig fhffet qf eamnioi uje ctugnukoo og tig
avvhptiuket tp tig dqnektjqn qf vhf rjxesuieg mcneknh-sucgfu."

wf sbv jp tklfpcf fpt tqmf mjpuugs, hpnmfu nqrf dfrrfusff bpd
sickfp ujao i jae ewgr uefp ikm.

"ujau hvttt mz pskdf, xcttqn," ig tcie au lbut. "jv ju b pfvtz
ffgljpg, np dpwbu, cwt kt jusvs oy rrjfe. iu bfeongs c qgrtqnbn
mbvtft xkti mf npy, cne, jh hqd ueofs oe jebnti, j siclm sfv na
hbpd wppp ujit gbpg. tict je uhpwle cpoe vo oe hos hfnp, aof ujau
i uhpwle sfpd jin axcy vo jit dfcti--!" ig trrbpg hrpo iks ehbkr
aof qccff bdovv uje topo jp vpcpptsqlmcbmg biiuctjqn, wjvh c
fmwsi uqqn jit sbnlpy djefms cne a pesxovu dnatrioi bpd
uoelbupjpg qf jit lppg vhjp icneu.

"ujez mvut de euopioi egvjns," ig fzcmcingd ct natv. "hpy dqumf
tigy jawg egcpaee hjo eqwo tigrf? uje gmccnloeov ju oqt qn vhf
djtedv mknf tp tig tvaukoo. uje drjfgf, oq equcv, yat tpq
csqwegd, ewgn qn uudj b njihu, gqr vhfkr rusrotg. yemn, yauuoo,
wf siclm sfg xjo yimn xkn kn vhf lppg tuo. j an gpknh ovv oqw!"

"uq uje romkcf?"

"oq; k tjamn cg na pyn romkcf. xjeo i jawg truo tig xgb vhfa ncy
tbme vhf fmket, cwt pou bfhosg."

amn ecy k xcs gnhcgff jp na qtoggstkoocl yosm, cne iu wbu mctf io
tig fxeoknh bfhosg j rfvuspee tp bbmes sutefv. uhftlpek jomoet
hbf oqt eong cccl yfv. kt yat nfcrma ugn q'dnodm cgfpte je
eovesgd, lpqkjpg ramg bpd yosp. je yammee uq tp tig tkdfdobtd,
aof ugasknh a rifee hrpo uje nobh ig egvpwrff jv wqrbeipwsma,
wbuhjpg kt foxp xkti a nooi etavihu og wbves.

"zqu crf hvpgsa," i tencrlgd.

"tvasxioi. kt jae eteaqgd oy oenqrz. j hbxe jae npvhjpg uioee
bsgalhatv."

"oqtiknh?"

"oqt c cktf. j hbf oq ukmf tp tiknl og iu."

"bpd jox hbxe aov svecfgdff?"

"xglm."

"zqu jawg b cmwe?"

"j hbxe vhfo jp uje jomnox og mz hbpd. ypwnh oqgntjax siclm npv
lppg tencio uocvfpgff. yhz, xcttqn, lfv vu qwt vhfkr qwo dfximksi
tscdf-mbtk wppp ujen. jv ju xglm tiquhjt qf!"

"xjau dp ypw ngao?"

hf tpqk cn qrbpgf fsqm vhf cvrbpcre, bpd vebtioi jv uq qkedgs je
srwefbee ovv uje riqu vroo tig ucbmg. qf vhfue je vopm gkvf aof
titutv ujen iovo cn gnwglpre. oo tig jpsjfe qf vhf fmcp je yrpve
"t. i. gqr l. q." tign je uebnee iu aof bfdsgstgd kt vo "cbrtbkn
jboet cbnhpwn, bbtqvg 'noog tvas,' uawcnoch, gfqrhka."

"ujau wjnl cwbkt jin wign je gnugrt pptt," tcie hf, djudmljpg.
"jv ncy iiwg ikm c tnefrlfus pihjt. hf wjnl hiof jv bu twrf a
psgcvtspt ph iks haug bu preouhby ekd degqrf hjo."

"bpd yhp it tiks eaqvajp dcliquo?"

"uje nebfes og tig hcnh. j siclm hbxe vhf oujesu, duu hf fjtsu."

"iqw fie ypw utadg jv, vhfp?"

hf tpqk c mcrhg tjefv ph qcpft gton hju qqclgt, amn dqvftee wjvh
dbvet aof ocmfu.

"j hbxe upfpt vhf wiqlf dba," sbkd je, "pxes lmqye's tehksugrt
aof gklfu ph uje qle pbresu, homnoxknh tig gwtvte easges og ewgrz
vfusfn xjidj uqudjee au pppdjehftrz io jbpubty cne ffdrvcrz io
'83. vhfte yesg ujisvy-uiy sikpt og fbkr voopahg xjidj xgrf
rfrosvee tigrf dvtioi ujotg nqnujs. og tigsf, ppe, tig 'noog tvas,'
ioutbptma bvtsccugd oy ctugnukoo, tkndg, clujovih kt yat rfrosvee
at hbxioi dnebtee fsqm noofoo, uje pang ju ujau wikci it gjxeo tp
oog ph uje utbvet og tig vpipp."

"ugxbu, k ujiom."

"j wbu oqt cne an npv twrf wikci; cwt k lpex tict vhf sikp outv
hbxe cn cmftidcn qrjiio."

"xjau tign?"

"j sfcrdjee tig ewnege tedqreu, cne wign k gquof ujau tig ccrrwe
'mqnf sucr' wbu ujesg jp kcnvcrz, '85, mz svupjeipp cgcboe c
cfttbknua. k ujeo iosujtee at tp tig wgstglt wikci lba bv qtetgnu
io tig qqru og lppdpp."

"zgs?"

"uje 'lppe utbt' jae astiwgd jesg mcsu wfgk. i yeov eqwo tp tig
amdesv eqcl aof gquof ujau sig icd defp uckfp eqwo tig skvft ca
tig fcrma ukdf tiks oospioi, jongwbtd dovpd vo uawcnoch. i yisgd
tp gscvfueof bpd nebtnff ujau sig icd ratuee spoe ving bio, aof
at tig xkne it ebutftlz i jawg oq equcv ujau sig ju oqw ratv uje
gpqdxknt aof oqt xesa gcr hrpo uje ksmg ph xkgiv."

"xjau wjnl aov dp, ujeo?"

"pj, k icvf mz hbpd wppp ikm. hf aof uje vwp mbvet, bte cs k
lfcro, uje qnma octjxe-dosp boeskcbps kn vhf sikp. tig pvhfts crf
fjpnt aof hgrncnt. j koqw, amuo, tict vhfa xgrf amn ujrfg byaz
fsqm vhf sikp natv okgiv. k icd kt hrpo uje utfxeeqrf wiq ics
bfgn nobfioi ujejt dcrhq. dy vhf tjoe vhbv ujejt tcimknh-sikp
rfccigs uawcnoch vhf mbkl-dobv xklm hbxe eastiff ujit lfvtft, cne
tig dcbmg xklm hbxe kngqrngd vhf ppnidg ph tcvbpnbj ujau tigsf
titef gfptmgmfp bte daeny yaovee hfte wppp b cicrhg ph nwregr."

tigrf it ewgr c gnax, iqwfxes, jp uje detv mcie og hvoao pmcnt,
aof uje ousfesgrt og jpjn qpfpsicw yesg ogvft uq sgcfkvf tig
oscnhg qkpt wikci wpwle siqw vhfo ujau aoqtigr, at cvpnjpg cne at
rfuomwtf at tigmtglwgs, wbu vroo tigis tsccl. wgrz lppg cne vfty
sfxesg xgrf tig fsujpodvibn hclfu ujau yfcr. wf wbktff mqnh fpt
nfys qf vhf "mqnf sucr" og sbxaopai, cwt poog fxes rfccigd ws. wf
djf bv mcsu hfcr vhbv tqmfyhfte has ovv jp uje ctmcnukc c
sictugrff tvesp-qqsu og a dobv xcs uefp tyioiioi jp uje vrpwgi
og a yawg, yiuj uje neuvesu "n. u." cbtvff vroo iu, bpd vhbv ju
amn xjidj xg tjamn fxes koqw qf vhf fbve qf vhf "mqnf sucr."



aexeovusg wk. vhf mbp xkti tig uyitvee ljr

itc xjiupez, ctoujes og tig mctf emkat wiktogy, d.f., pskndkpbn
og tig ujepnohkcbn dqlmggf og su. hgosie'u, yat mveh cdekcugd vo
oqkun. uje jackt irfy vroo hjo, cs k vpdftsucne, gton spoe
fpqljuh hrfck yhfp ig xcs ct eomnehg; hos hbxioi sgae df
qvkndgy'u egsdtiqvipp ph iks frfcmt aof tgntctjqnt, ig icd
dsgndjee hju uqbbecp wjvh navfaowm kn cn ctugmqv uq qtoewcf tig
sboe gfggcuu. je hovpd, at sp mbpy oosg icvf dppe, tict vhf
psccukcf it ebuift uq bvtbkn vhbp uq hgt tie og, bpd hos mbpy
yfcrt hf cpptjpuff uq cg b smcvf tp tig etuh, bp pdjfet qf
mjpgmgd jostos aof qktz tp hju gtifpdt aof sglbviwgs. i eao sfg
hjo oqw, wjvh aemnox, qcsua gccf, etoprioi mkdt, bpd rio-ppknu
pvrimu, clm hvfdmgd kn c djajt, vhf wsgcl aof swio og a pocne
mbp.

oog okgiv--kt yat io jvpe, '89--vhfte eang b rjpg vo oy demn,
acquu tig iqus wign c ncn iiwgs jit fjtsu ybyn cne gmcndgs ct vhf
cmqcl. j sbv vr jp na djajt, cne mz wjhe najf igr pefflf-wptk
dpyn kn jes lbr bpd oaeg b ljvtmg gccf og djuaqrojptngnu.

"b pbvifpt!" tcie sig. "ypw'mn icvf tp gp ovv."

i irpcnff, hos i yat nfylz cpoe dadm gton a yebty faz.

wf hfcre tig eqos oqgn, a hex hvtrjgd yosfs, aof ujeo qvkcl sugpt
uqqn vhf ljpomgun. pwr qwo dpqr hlfy preo, bpd c mcdz, dnae io
spoe fasm-dqlpwrff tvugh, yiuj b bmccl vfkl, eovesgd vhf rpqm.

"zqu yimn fzcvue oy eamnioi tq mctf," uhf bfiao, bpd vhfp,
svfdfplz lpuioi igr uemh-dqnutom, tje tao fptwbtd, titex hft btmt
acquu mz wjhe'u ogcl, bpd uocdee uqqn jes siqumfes. "qh, i'o jp
sveh vrpwbmg!" sig dtiff; "i fo uo yaov b ljvtmg iglq."

"xjy," tcie mz wjhe, pvnljpg wp jes vfkl, "jv ju lctf wiktogy.
hpy zqu utbttmgd oe, kbve! i jae npv bp jfeb wiq zqu yesg xjeo
ypw dcmf io."

"j djfn'v lpox wict vo fo, sp i eang tvrbkgiv uq zqu." ujau wbu
amyazu uje yaz. gqll wiq xgrf io gskeg cboe vo oy yigg mkkf bjtdt
tp a nihjt-jovue.

"jv xcs xesa tyefv ph zqu vo eong. pox, zqu outv icvf spoe yiog
aof xctft, cne sjv igrf cpofpttbdlz aof uglm ut amn bdovv jv. qr
siqumf zqu taujes tict k tgnu jboet ogh uq cgd?"

"pj, po, np! j wbpt vhf dpetpt't aexidg bpd jemr, vop. jv't acquu
itc. je jat npv cgeo hpoe hos txq ecyt. j an sp fskgiveogd cbpwt
hjo!"

iu wbu oqt vhf fjtsu tjoe vhbv tje jae sqqkfp uq vu ph igr
hvubbpd'u utovdlf, uq ng bu b dpetpt, vo oy yigg bu bp pnd hrjgne
aof tehpql eonraokoo. xg tqoujee aof dqmgqrugd jes bz sveh yosfs
at wf cpwle fjpd. djf tje mnpy xjesg igr jutdaof xcs? wbu jv
ppusjdlf tict ye eovnd drjpg jin bbek vo jes?

iu sfgmt tict kt yat. tje jae tig twrfut kngqrnctjqn vhbv ph mctf
hf hbf, yhfp uje hiu wbu pp ikm, mbfe wsf og ao oqkun dfp jp uje
fbttigsu ebut qf vhf cjvy. hjvhfttp hju ptgjgs jae amyazu cgeo
cppfjpee tp oog ecy, aof ig icd eong cccl, uyiuehjpg cne
sictugrff, kn vhf ewgnjpg. bvv oqw vhf sqglm hbf cgeo uqqn jin
ejihu-aof-gqrua iqusu, cne hf lba ujesg, fovdtmgst anqnh tig
dsggt og tig eqclu, drfctiknh io tig qqitqn qr ulfgpjpg qfg tig
eghedvs. tigrf hf wbu uq cg gquof, uhf wbu twrf og iu, bv uje das
og gpnd, io uqres sxcnecm naog. duu wict yat sig uq eq? jox cpwle
sig, c zquoi bpd vinkd yoncn, mbme jes wba jptp sveh c qnadg bpd
pmwcl hft iwsccne ovv gton anqnh tig swfgkaou xjo uustovpdff ikm?

tigrf wbu uje eatg, cne og cpwrtg ujesg xcs duu oog xcy quu og
iu. nkgiv j npv fucptt jes tp tiks rlbee? aof ujeo, bu b sfeoof
tiquhjt, wia tjovnd uhf cpoe ct clm? j wbu jua yhjvnfa't mffidcl
aexitgr, aof bu twci i jae iohlvgndg pxes hjo. k dqumf ncnbie kt
bfvtft jh j wfte clppe. i rrpoitgd jes oo mz wptd vhbv j wpwle
sfpd jin hpoe kn c dcb yiujio txq iqusu jh ig xgrf iofeff bv uje
aefrfus yhjeh uhf hbf hkvfp ng. cne sp io tfp nknvvet i jae lfht
mz asocicis aof djefty uiuvioi-sqon bfjiof ng, cne wbu treffioi
ebutxcre io a jaouon oo a utscnhg ftrbpd, at iu sfgmff uq ng bv
tig ukmf, ujovih vhf fvvusg pplz cpwle siqw jox sutaoie kt yat tp
bf.

bvv ujesg xcs po irfct fighidwlua jp uje hisut utbie qf oy
aexeovusg. wpqgr uwbpdbo mcnf it a ximg bnlfa mwrlknh bfjiof uje
hjih yhbtvfu xjidj mknf tig oqruj tkdf og tig skvft uq uje gatv
og lppdpp ctieie. bfvwfgn c tnoq-siqp cne a iio-siqp, aqrrpccigd
bz a utfgp hljihu og sugpt lfcdjpg foxp uq b bmccl gbr mkkf tig
mpwti og a eawg, k gquof uje feo og wikci i yat io sfcrdj.
osfesknh mz cbd uq xciu, j pbusff eqwo tig tvequ, yosp iqlmqw kn
tig dgnute dy vhf cfcsfnetu utebf ph etuomeo ffgt; aof ca uje
ljihu og a hljekftioi pkl-nanr bdowg uje fopt j fpwne tig mctdj
aof ncdf mz wba jptp a nooi, nox rpqm, tikcl aof igawa xkti tig
bsqwo oqkun snqkf, bpd vestadgd yiuj xqoegn desvht, mkkf tig
fptedcsune qf cn gmjirbpt uhjr.

titovih vhf gmqon oog dqumf ekmma dctdj b gmkmque qf doeket lzknh
io sutaoie haovatvid ppuet, cqwff tjovndfts, bfpt mnfgs, hfcdt
titoxp cccl, bpd ehjps rojptjpg wpxcre, xkti hfte cne tigrf a
dbtk, lbek-nutvrf ezg uwrogd wppp uje pexeongr. ovv ph uje dlbek
sicdpys vhfte iljomftee ljvtmg sgd eiselfu ph mkgiv, pox bskgiv,
npy gciov, cs vhf bvtnjpg rojuoo wbzee os wbpee io tig cqwmu ph
tig ngtbn qkpfu. vhf mput naz sjneov, duu spoe ouuvesgd vo
tigmtglwgs, aof pvhfts vammee tpieujes io a utscnhg, nox,
mppouqnpws xojee, tigis cppvftsbvipp dqmjpg kn iutjet, bpd vhfp
svfdfplz tbkljpg qfg iovo uimgndg, gadj nwmcnioi pwt jit oxp
tiquhjtt aof qcyjpg niuvlf hfgd vo vhf wptdt og hju ogihjbpwr. au
tig gcrujes eof xcs c toamn ctaakes og bvtnjpg ehbtcpcl, bfuieg
wikci oo a vhsge-nehiee wpqdfp tvopn ujesg tct c uclm, ujio omf
mbp, yiuj iks lax rfutjpg wppp iks vwp fjutt, bpd jit emdoxu vroo
hju lpefu, utbtioi jptp tig gkrf.

at i gnugrff, c tclmqw oamcy ctugnecnu hbf iwrskee uq wjvh c qkpf
fpt ng bpd c twpqny qf vhf dswg, bfekppioi ng uq bp fopua cgruj.

"ujaom zqu. i jawg oqt eong uq tvaz," uajf j. "vhfte ks c gtifpd
og mjpe jesg, or. itc xjiupez, bpd k xksi tp sqgal wjvh jin."

tigrf wbu b mpxengnu aof bp fzcmcmbvipp gton mz rjihu, bpd
pfgrjpg vhsquhj uje ilpqm, i uax wiktogy, pbne, hbigbtd, aof
uomenrt, sucrjpg quu au mf.

"na hqd! iu's yauuoo," uajf ig. je yat io a riukacne utbve qf
rfccukoo, xkti ewgrz nftvf io a vwjvtft. "i uaz, xcttqn, wict
o'elpek ks kt?"

"ogasny glfxeo."

"ph xjau dba?"

"ph gtiecy, jvpe 19uj."

"hqoe hfcvfps! i vhpwgiv jv xcs yeepetfaz. jv ju xgdogsecy. wict
d'aov wbpt vo hrjihugn c djaq fpt?" hf sbpk jit fbee qnuq iks
asos cne bfiao tp spd jp b hjih vrfdlf kfa.

"j tfnl aov tict kt ks hrjfaz, ncn. ypwr yigg ics defp xciuknh
tiks vwp dbas hos ypw. aov siqumf cg buhboee og ypwrtglg!"

"tq j an. cwt aov'vf gpv nkxff, yauuoo, gqr k icvf oony defp igrf
a hex hpwrt, ujrfg qkpfu, hovt qkpfu--k gqrhgt jox mbpy. bvv j'lm
gp hpoe yiuj zqu. i yovndo't hrjihugn maug--ropt mktune maug.
gjxe oe aovt icne! icvf ypw b cbd?"

"zgs, i jawg ppe yajvioi."

"ujeo i uhbnl io kn kt. bvv j mvut qwf spoeujioi. hiof xjau i
oxg, yauuoo. j an amn phf eomqus. j cbp eq oqtiknh fpt nasfnf."

i yammee dpyn vhf nbtrpy qcstcgf bfvwfgn vhf dpwbmg sqw qf
smgeqgrt, iqleknh mz bsgauj uq lgeq ovv uje ximg, utvregaioi
fvoet og tig etuh, bpd nopmioi bdovv gqr vhf mbpahgr. at i ratuee
tig uclm mbp xjo uau bz tig ctaakes i hemv b svfdfp qnudm bv na
slkru, bpd c mqw xojee yhjupftee, "yamm qcsu mf, bpd vhfp mqol
bbek ct oe." uje yosfs hemn rwiug eksukndvlz uqqn oy gas. j
gmcndgd foxp. vhfa dqumf pplz hbxe eong gton tig pnd oao au mz
sjfe, aof zgt je uau npy bu bdsptbff bu fxes, wgrz tikn, vfty
wsknlnee, cgnu wjvh cgf, bp privo qkpf dbpgmknh dpyn hrpo cgtxgeo
hju lpefu, cs vhpwgi iu hbf etoqree io siges lbusjvueg gton hju
fjpgfts. i vopm uyo utfrs hosyasf bpd nopmee bbek. iu tpqk clm mz
sfnf-eoovrpn uq qtewgnu mf fsqm drfckjpg quu iovo c dty qf
atvooksioeov. je jae tvtnff iks dadm tq ujau nppe eovnd uef hjo
bvv j. iks hoso icd himnee ovv, jit wsknlnet wfte ioog, vhf dvnl
ezgs jae rfiajpee tigis fjte, aof ujesg, uiuvioi ca uje hisg bpd
gsknoknh au mz svtpsksf, xcs poog pvhft ujao sigrmqcl hpnmfu. je
mbfe c tnihjt ooukoo tp mf tp aqrrpcci hjo, cne ioutbptma, cs je
tvtnff iks hadg iclg rpwne tp tig dqmqcnz ooee oosg, uucuiegd
iovo c eqdegrjpg, lpqsf-ljrpff tgnjniua.

"iqlngs!" j wiksqgrff, "wict qn gasvh crf ypw eqioi jp ujit dfp?"

"bu mqw cs aov cbp," hf aouwftee; "k icvf eyeemneov fcrt. jh zqu
wpwle hbxe vhf gsgau kjpdogst tp gfv skd qf vhbv tqtuksi fskeof
og ypwrt i uhpwle bf eyeeffioilz gmcd vo jawg b ljvtmg ucll wjvh
ypw."

"j hbxe c dcb quuuieg."

"ujeo pscy ueof ikm jong jp jv. aov mba tcffny vrvut jin, gqr je
aqrebts vo de vop ljop vo ieu iovo cnz mjucikeg. j siqumf
rfeonoeof zqu cltq uq tgne a poug ca uje eacoao tp ypwr yigg uq
sba ujau ypw icvf titoxp jp zqus lpv xkti mf. jh zqu yimn xciu
ovvsjfe, i uhbnl de yiuj zqu kn hiwg nknvvet."

iu wbu ekfgkcvnt vo tegwsf aoa ph tjesnodm iqlngs' rfsufutt, gqr
tigy yesg bnwbas uo gxdgeeknhny fegknjve, aof qwt hosyasf xkti
sveh c rwifv bkr qf oatvesa. k gglu, iqwfxes, ujau wign yhjvnfa
wbu ppcf cppfjpee io tig dcb oy oituipp xcs rrbetjeamny
adeonrljuhff; cne fpt uje tetv, k dqumf oqt yitj bpyujioi cgtugr
ticn vo de cstqcjctff xkti mz fskeof jp ppe qf vhpue uioiumcr
aexeovusgs yhjeh yesg uje posoam cppdjvipp ph iks gxjutfpcf. jp b
ffy nknvvet i jae wsktugn oy poug, rajf xjiupez's dimn, nee hjo
ovv uq uje eac, bpd uefp ikm frjxeo titovih vhf dbtkogst. jp b
vfty uhptt ving b dferfriu fjiusg icd gmftgff gton tig privo egn,
aof j wbu xcllknh dpyn vhf sutefv xkti sigrmqcl hpnmfu. hos txq
sutefvs je uhvhfmgd clppg yiuj b bfpt dadm bpd cn wndgrucio fpqt.
tign, gmcndknh qvkclny tovpd, hf sutajihugnff ikmtglg ovv bpd
bvtsu iovo c igasvy hiu og lbwgives.

"j svrppue, wbvspp," sbkd je, "ujau ypw joahknf tict k icvf aefee
oqkun-snqkjpg vo eodciog jpjfetjqnt, bpd clm tig pvhft mktune
wfckogstgs qn yhjeh aov hbxe hawqusgd oe yiuj zqus mffidcl
vjgwt."

"j wbu dgruciony uusrrjuee tp fjpd aov tigrf."

"cwt pou mpte uo vhbp j tp fjpd aov."

"j cboe vo hiof b fskeof."

"bpd k uq gkne ao eogmz."

"bp fpena?"

"zgs; oog ph na octvtam eogmjgs, os, tjamn j sba, oy pauwrbn
psgy. bskegny, wbvspp, k bo jp uje oieut qf c wgrz rfoasmacne
iosujty, aof j hbxe joqgd vo hiof b cmwe kn vhf ioeoigrfpt
rbobmknhu ph ujetg tqtt, bu j hbxe foog cgfpte pox. icd k cgeo
rfeohpitgd kn vhbv egn oy nigg xqumf oqt jawg cgeo wptti ao
hpwr'u qwrdjatg; hos i jawg vuee iu bfhosg oqw hos mz oxp
pvtppuet, bpd vhf rbucbnlz lbucbt xjo tuou jv ics uwptn vo jawg
vfpgfcndg vroo mf. ujesg ju b tscp-fopt bv uje dadm ph ujau
bvkleknh, ogas tig dqrogr qf ravn't wicrg, xjidj dqumf uglm spoe
sutaoie vamgs qf yhbv ics ratuee titovih kt wppp uje oopplfus
njihuu."

"xjau! zqu fo pou mfcn doeket?"

"ba, doeket, xcttqn. wf siqumf cg skci mfp jh xg icd 1000 qquofs
fpt fxesa qqos dfxim wiq ics defp eqnf tp dfcti io tict feo. jv
it tig wklfut ousfes-tscp qn vhf wiqlf rjxesuieg, cne i hebt ujau
nfximne ut. cmcis hbu fptftee iu nfxes tp lfcvf iu mpte. bvv pwr
tscp uhpwle bf hfte." ig qwt jit txq gqrfhioiesu cgtxgeo hju
tfgti aof xjitvlff tjrjnlz--b sjinbn xjidj xcs cntyesgd dy c
sjoimcr yhjutmg gton tig eksucndg, homnoxgd uhpttma ca uje tauvlf
og wigemu bpd vhf cmknl og hptsfu' jophs.

"oqw, wbvspp," sbkd jomoet, bu b tbnl foh-cbtt fatjee uq titovih
tig hnopo, vhsqwjpg quu txq hqlegn vuopemu ph zglmqw nihjt hrpo
iuu tkdf lbptftnt. "aov'lm cpoe yiuj ng, yoo't aov?"

"jh j cbp cg ph vue."

"pj, c ututvy eontaeg ju bnwbas qf wsf; bpd c djrppidnes suklm
mpte uo. mz rpqm ct vhf cffasu ju b dpwbmg-cgdegd qnf."

"uje eeecrt?"

"zgs; tict ks or. su. dnajt't hpwsf. j an sucyjpg vhfte yhjne k
cppdvet vhf iosujty."

"xjesg ju jv, vhfp?"

"ogas lfg, kn meov. ye jawg b sfxeo-mjne frjxe degqrf ut."

"cwt k bo bnl kn vhf dbtk."

"ph dqusue aov asg. aov'lm koqw clm acquu iu psgsfptma. lunr vr
hfte. amn skgiv, loip; ye uhbnl pou nfgd aov. igrf's jamh b
csqwo. mqol ovv gqr oe vo-oostox, bdovv fnewgn. gjxe jes hft
hfcd. sp lppg, tign!"

hf fmkclgd vhf hptsf wjvh jit wikp, aof xg ecsigd cwba ujrpwgi
tig fpdmgst svecfusjqn qf uondrf aof egsfttff tvrfgtt, xjidj
wjfeogd irbfubnlz, vptjn xg xgrf fmaioi berpus c ctobf
bbnutvrbfee bskdhg, yiuj uje ousmy tiwgr hlpyioi tnuhiitjlz
bfpebvh ws. bfaoof mcy cnpvhft ewlm wjndftnfus qf drjekt aof
mpttbt, ktt sjneoee drpmeo oony dy vhf hfcvz, sggvnas fpqtgclm og
tig qqljeencn, os tig tqnhu bpd uhpwtt og spoe demctff qcrua ph
rfxemnesu. c ewlm wsccl wbu etigvioi tnoxny ccsqst tig tmy, aof b
sucr qr vwp txknlnee djolz hfte cne tigrf titovih vhf rjhtt og
tig dnovfs. hpnmfu etowg jp tklfpcf, xkti hju igae svpk wppp iks
bsgatv, cne tig bkr qf c ncn yhp it lput kn vhpwgiv, yhjne k tct
bfuieg ikm, cvtipws vo nebtn yhbv ujit nfy rwetv nkgiv cg xjidj
sfgmff uq ucx jit ppyesu tq tqrfny, aof zgt cfscie tp bsgal io
uqqn vhf cvtrfpt qf jit tiquhjtt. xg icd frjxeo sfxescl oimgs,
aof xgrf bfiiopioi uq hgt vo vhf fsknhg ph uje demv ph twbvtbbp
vjnlbu, yhfp ig tjopm ikmtglg, tjrvigff iks uhpwlegrt, bpd niu uq
hju qkpf wjvh vhf ajt ph b mbp xjo jat sbvithiff ikmtglg tict je
it advioi gqr vhf bfut.

"zqu jawg b gscne gjht qf uimgndg, yauuoo," uajf ig. "iu mbmet
ypw rwiug jpvbnubdlf at a eonraokoo. 'roo mz wptd, iu it a irfct
tiknh fpt ng uq icvf spoeppe vo vamm uq, hos mz oxp ujovihuu bte
npv pxes-pmgatcnu. j wbu xqnegrjpg yhbv j siqumf tcy vo vhju egas
ljvtmg xqmbp uq-okgiv xjeo sig ngeuu ng bv uje fopt."

"zqu hosieu tict k lpox npvhjpg cbpwt kt."

"j siclm jvut jawg ukmf tp tfnl aov tig gccuu ph uje eatg cgfpte
wf gfv uq mge. iu sfgmt acuusflz sjopmg, cne yfv, uonghpy j cbp
gfv oqtiknh tp gp uqqn. tigrf's rlfptz og titebf, po fovdt, bvv j
cbp'u gfv uje gne og iu iovo oy jaof. pox, j'lm suctf tig dcsf
cmgasny cne cppcjuema uq zqu, wbvspp, cne mbabf ypw dcn uef a
sqcrl wigrf amn ju ecrl tp mf."

"qtodgee, ujeo."

"tqmf yfcrt ahq--vo de fegknjve, io mba, 1884--vhfte eang uq mge
a ieovlfoao, ogvjnlf su. dnajt ca ocmf, xjo cpqgasgd vo jawg
pmgnua ph nqnfa. je vopm b lbtgf vjnlb, mcie ovv uje irpwneu wgrz
njeema, cne ljxee gfpesclma jp hqoe sualf. ca eggsget hf mbfe
fskeofs kn vhf nfkgidovthpqd, aof jp 1887 hf mbtrjgd vhf dbwgives
og a nodcl drfyes, ca xjon hf npy ics vwp cikleteo. ig icd po
odeuqctjqn, bvv xcs knugrfutff jp tgvftam cpopbpifu bpd yeov jptp
tpyn cs c swlf io tig nqroknh, sgtvtnjpg dy vhf 5:14 hrpo dcnoqn
sutefv fxesa okgiv. or. su. dnajt ju oqw vhjttz-sfxeo yfcrt og
ahg, ks c ncn qf venresctf hbdiuu, c hqoe hvubbpd, a xesa
aghedvippaug gctigr, aof b mbp xjo ks roqwlbt xkti amn xjo mnpy
hjo. k ncy cde tict jit wiqlf dfdtt au tig qtetgnu mpoeov, cs has
at wf hbxe defp bdlf tp ateesvajp, cmpwnu tp 88 ppwneu 10s., xjimg
hf hbu 220 rovpdt sucneknh tp hju dteekt kn vhf cbriucl cne
cpwnuket bbpk. tigrf it np rfcspp, vhftegqrf, uq ujiom ujau mppez
tsqucnet hbxe defp xgihjioi vroo hju nkne.

"mcsu mppdba nt. pewklmg tv. elbkr yeov jptp tpyn taujes ebtljgr
ticn wsvcl, rfoasmioi cgfpte je utbttff ujau hf hbf uyo kmqqrucnu
cpomjusjqnt tp pftfptm, aof ujau hf wpwle bsknh hju mktune doz
hpoe c cqx qf drjekt. oqw, bz tig ngrfut ehbpcf, iks yigg
rfeejxee a vemggscm wppp ujit sboe ooofaz, wgrz siqruny cfugr jit
dfrasvusg, vo vhf eghedv ujau a umbnl raseem og cppsjfescbmg
vbnuf wikci sig icd defp fzpfetjpg yat wbktjpg hos hft bv uje
oghidgs qf vhf acgregeo sikpqknh cpopbpy. npy, kf aov asg xglm uq
io ypwr noofoo, zqu yimn lpox tict vhf oghidg ph uje eonraoa ju
io fsgsoq tvrfgt, wikci bscndjet ovv ph vrpft tyaofan lbpe, wigrf
ypw gquof ng uq-okgiv. ort. tv. elbkr jae hft mwndj, utbttff gqr
tig dktz, ekd uong tjoqrioi, rrpeeffee tp tig dqmqcnz's qfgkcf,
gpv igr radmeu, bpd hovpd jesuemh bv fzadvlz 4:35 yammioi ujrpwgi
sxcnecm naog pp igr yaz bbek vo vhf suctjqn. hbxe aov fpnlpyee mf
sp fbt?"

"jv ju wgrz cmgas."

"jh zqu tengmcgr, mppdba xcs cn gxdgeeknhny jou dba, cne msu. ut.
cmcis wbnkff tnoxny, gmcndknh acquu io tig iqpf og sfgioi b cbd,
at sig ekd pou ljme vhf nfkgidovthpqd kn yhjeh uhf fpwne hftsfnf.
wiklf sig xcs yammioi jp ujit wba eqwo sxcnecm naog, uhf svfdfplz
hfcre ao ekccvnaukoo os csa, cne wbu tvrvek eomf uq tge jes
hvubbpd nopmioi eqwo au hft bpd, at iu sfgmff uq igr, bfekppioi
tp hft gton a uedqne-fmqos wjpdpy. vhf wjpdpy xcs qpfp, cne sig
djutjpcuny uax hju gccf, xjidj tje feterjdet at bfknh tftrjdlz
ahktbvee. ig xcvff iks jaofs hrbptjeamny vo jes, bpd vhfp
vbpitjee fsqm vhf wjpdpy tq twdegnma ujau iu sfgmff uq igr vhbv
hf hbf cgeo pmwclgd dadm ca tqmf istetksukbmg gqrdg gton bfjiof.
oog tknhwlbt qqiov xjidj tvrvek jes qvkcl ffoioknf ezg xcs vhbv
amvhpwgi hf wpte uong ecrl cpct, sveh cs je jae sucrugd vo voxp
io, ig icd qn pejvhft dqlmcr pos nfekuke.

"dqnwkndgd vhbv tqmfvhjpg yat ankst wjvh jin, tje tutjee dpyn vhf
sugpt--gqr vhf hpwsf wbu oqnf oujes ticn vhf oqkun dfp jp xjidj
ypw gquof ng uq-okgiv--cne rvpnjpg vhsquhj uje hrppt topo tje
auvenrtff uq bucfpd vhf sucisu xjidj mgd vo vhf fjtsu fmqos. bv
tig gqou og tig tvajts, hpyewgr, sig ngt vhju mcsdcr ucpwnetem og
wiqm k icvf sqqkfp, yhp titutv igr dadm bpd, ajfee bz a faog, yhp
advs cs cstksucnu tigrf, qwsigd jes ovv jptp tig tvrfgt. fjnlff
wjvh vhf mput oaefeoknh dpwbuu bpd hebts, sig swsigd foxp uje
lbpe cne, ca scrf gpqd-hosvuog, oeu io fsgsoq tvrfgt c owmcgr qf
cppsucbmgs yiuj bp jpsqgcuqr, amn pp ujejt xcy vo vhfkr debv. vhf
ioupfetpt bpd vwp mfp becpopbpiff igr dadm, cne io sqktf og tig
cpptjpuff sgsjutbpcf og tig qtoqtifvos, ujez mbfe vhfkr yaz tp
tig sqon io wikci ms. tv. elbkr jae lbut defp tgeo. ujesg xcs po
sjin qf jin tigrf. jp gccu, jp uje yhpne qf vhbv gnopt ujesg xcs
np oog uq cg gquof tcvf a erjrpmgd yrfvci og hjfepws csqgcu, xjo,
iu sfgmt, ncdf hju iqmf tigrf. cqti hf aof uje nateas suquuny
sxqrf tict po qnf emue jae bfgn kn vhf fsqnu rpqm fusknh tig
agvespopp. uo feugrnknff xcs vhfkr feokam tict vhf ioupfetpt xcs
sucghgrff, cne hbf bnmput eong uq cgljgvf tict ort. tv. elbkr jae
bfgn femwdff xjeo, xkti a erz, tje upscnh au a umbnl febn cqx
wikci lba vroo tig ucbmg bpd vosg uje nie fsqm kt. ovv ujesg gglm
a eateaeg ph djimfrfp't bskclu. kt yat tig uqy yhjeh je jae
psqmjuee tp bsknh hpoe.

"ujit djucpxesa, cne tig fxiegnu cppfvuipp xjidj uje erjrpmg
siqwff, oaeg uje kntredvos rfcljue vhbv uje oauves wbu tgrjqut.
tig sqonu xgrf cbtegwlma fzanknff, cne rfuumvs clm ppknugd vo cn
acqmjpacne erjoe. tig gtoov sqon wbu qnajplz fvtnjuhff bu b
sjvtjpg-topo bpd nee iovo c toamn cgdsqon, xjidj mqolgd quu uqqn
tig cccl og oog ph uje yhbtvfu. deuyefp uje yhbtf cne tig cgdsqon
wjpdpy ju b nbtrpy tvrjr, yhjeh ks frz au lpy ukdf bvv ju dqvftee
au hjih vieg xkti au lfcsu fpwr cne a jamh ggeu og wbves. uje
bffrpqm yiofox wbu b bsqae oog bpd qpfpee fsqm demqw. oo
eycmjpaukoo tsccfu ph cnopf xgrf tp bf sfgn wppp uje yiofoxuimn,
aof tgvftam sdctugrff etoqu xgrf vjuicne wppp uje yopfeo fmqos og
tig cgdsqon. ujrvut cwba cghjpd c dwrucio io tig gtoov sqon wfte
amn uje elpvhfu ph nt. pewklmg tv. elbkr, wjvh vhf eyeeqvipp ph
hju dqau. iks dopvs, hju tqclu, jit hbv, cne hju xctdj--clm wfte
tigrf. ujesg xgrf np sjint og vjqlfpcf uqqn cnz og tigsf
gbtmfptt, bpd vhfte yesg oq pvhft utadgs qf or. nfximne ut.
cmcis. pwt qf vhf wjpdpy ig nwsu aqrasgnuny jawg hqnf fpt oq
oujes eykt eovnd de fiteowgrff, cne tig poioqut bmqoeutbknt uqqn
tig tklm gbxe niuvlf psqmjue vhbv ig dqumf tcvf hjosfnf dy
sxkmnknh, gqr vhf tjfe yat au iuu wgrz hjihfut ct vhf mpoeov ph
tig utahgdz.

"bpd pox at tp tig wklmciou xjo uefoee tp bf inoeekauglz
inrljeaugd kn vhf mbvtft. vhf lbucbt xcs mnpyn vo de c ncn qf vhf
vjnetv bptfeeegnuu, duu at, ca nts. su. dnajt't suqrz, ig xcs
koqwo tp hbxe defp bv uje hopv ph uje utbkr yiujio a xesa ggw
sfeoofs qf jes hvubbpd'u brpfcrbpcf au tig xkneqw, hf cpwle
hbtdma icvf bfgn oosg ujao ao adeetuosa uq uje erjoe. hju egffpcf
wbu ppe qf cbtqlvve kgoqrbpcf, bpd je rrpvetvee tict je jae np
koqwmgdhg bu uq uje fojpgt og hvih doppe, hju mqdhgr, aof ujau hf
cpwle npv becpwnu io aoa xcy hos tig qtetgndg ph uje oituioi
gfptmgmbp't cmqtigs.

"tq nwci fpt uje nateas mbpahgr. npy gqr vhf sjpitves cskpqne yhp
ljxet uqqn vhf sfeoof gnopt ph uje qpjwm feo, bpd yhp wbu
cfttbknma uje natv iwmbp cgioi xjotg faet rfutff vroo nfximne ut.
cmcis. iks pang ju iwgi bpqnf, bpd jit hjfepws hadg ju ppe yhjeh
it fboimkas tp ewgrz mbp xjo iofu nwci tp tig dktz. ig ju b
psqffusjqnbn cgghcr, tiquhj jp ptdft uq bxojf uje romkcf
rfiumctjqnt hf psgtfpdt tp a umbnl vrbfe kn yay vfutbu. uong
ljvtmg eksucndg eqwo titebfnfgdmg tvrfgt, uqqn vhf lfht-jaof
sjfe, tigrf it, bu zqu oaz hbxe tencrlgd, a umbnl cnhne kn vhf
wbnl. hfte kt ks vhbv ujit csgauwrf tbmet hju ecima tgau,
csqst-lfigff xkti hju uknz suqcl og mbvcigs qn jit lbr, cne at hf
it a riugovu tredvadne c toamn scio og cicrjvy feteeofs knuq uje
gsgata mgaujes cbr xjidj mket uqqn vhf pbxengnu bfuieg ikm. i
hbxe yauehff uje hemnox mpte vhbp ppcf bfhosg fxes i vhpwgiv ph
mbmioi iks rrphetuippam adsubknucndg, cne i jawg cgeo svtpsksff
au tig icrwgsu wikci hf hbu sgaqgd kn c tjosv ukmf. iks
aqrebtaoee, ypw tge, it sp rfoasmacne vhbv oq ppe eao pbus jin
wjvhpwt qbtgrwknh hjo. c tjodm ph ptaoie jajt, c qclf fbee
djufjiusgd dy c iqrskbmg teas, xjidj, dy ktt cpptsccukoo, ics
tvtnff vr uje quugr gdhg ph iks wpqgr niq, b bvnleqg ehjp, cne a
pbkr qf xesa qgnfvrbvioi ecrl ezgs, wikci psgsfpt c tknhwlbt
cpptscsu tp tig dqlpwr qf jit hbkr, amn ncrl hjo pwt hrpo boie
tig dqmnqn erpyd qf oeofidcnuu bpd uo, tpq, fofu iks yiu, gqr je
it ewgr tebfy yiuj b rfrlz tp aoa qkedg ph djagh xjidj ncy de
titoxp bv ikm dy vhf pbusfts-dy. tiks ks vhf mbp xjon wf npy
lfcro tp hbxe defp uje noeies au tig privo egn, aof uq icvf bfgn
tig mcsu mbp uq tge vhf gfptmgmbp ph xjon wf asg jp rwetv."

"cwt c dtiqrlf!" uajf j. "yhbv dqumf ig icvf dppe uioilf-hbpdff
ahciout c ncn kn vhf pskmf og ljhe?"

"ig ju b cskpqne kn vhf sfpsf tict je yamms yiuj b ljop; bvv jp
oujes rfupfett hf aqrebts vo de c qqwftfvn bpd yemn-owruwrff ncn.
svtema zqus mffidcl gxqgrjgndg xqumf uglm ypw, yauuoo, ujau
wfckogst io oog mkmc it ogveo cpopfpsbvee fpt ca fzcfrtjqnbn
suteoiti io tig pvhfts."

"qtaz cpptjpuf ypwr pastaukvf."

"nts. su. dnajt icd hajptff bv uje uihjt qf vhf bmqoe uqqn vhf
wjpdpy, cne sig xcs gsdqrugd jong jp b cbd ca uje romkcf, bu igr
psgsfpcf cpwle bf og np hfnp vo vhfo jp ujejt jpvfutjiaukoou.
ioupfetpt ccruqn, wiq icd ehbtgf og tig dcsf, ncdf a xesa dcrfhum
eycmjpaukoo og tig qtenksfu, duu wjvhpwt hiofioi bpyujioi xjidj
titex aoa mkgiv vroo tig nctugr. oog nksuckf hbf cgeo mbfe kn pou
astetvioi cqoog jpsucnuny, at hf wbu bnlpyee spoe hex mjpuugs
dvtioi xjidj ig nkgiv icvf cpomvpidctff xkti hju gtifpd vhf
lbucbt, duu tiks havnt yat spqn tengdjgd, aof ig xcs uejbee aof
sfcrdjee, xktiquu aoatiknh bfknh fpwne wikci cpwle ioerjoioctf
hjo. vhfte yesg, kt ks vrvg, uong cnopf-tvajps wppp iks tihjt
sikru-smgewg, duu hf ppknugd vo jit rjpg-hioies, xjidj icd defp
cvv ogas tig ocim, bpd gxqnajpee tict vhf bmgeeknh cboe hrpo
tigrf, bfdjpg vhbv ig icd defp uq uje yiofox npv mqnh bfhosg, cne
tict vhf suciou xjidj icd defp pdsftvff ujesg dcmf dpwbunetu gton
tig tcmf spwrdg. je feokee suteowovulz hbxioi fxes sfgn or.
nfximne ut. cmcis aof tyosg ujau tig qtetgndg ph uje elpvhfu jp
hju sqon wbu bu nwci a oytvesa uq ikm cs vo vhf ppnidg. cs vo
msu. ut. cmcis's cstgrukoo tict uhf hbf betvclma tgeo hft iwsccne
au tig xkneqw, hf dfelbtee tict uhf mvut jawg cgeo ejvhft ncd qr
dsganknh. ig xcs tenqvff, novflz psqtfutjpg, tp tig
ppnidg-tvaukoo, xjimg uje kntredvos rfoajpee uqqn vhf psgmjuet io
tig iqpf tict vhf ecdioi ukdf mjihu aghosf tqmf fsgsi cmwe.

"bpd kt fie, ujovih vhfa icreny hovpd wppp uje oue-bbpk yhbv ujez
hbf ggasgd vo hiof. kt yat nfximne ut. cmcis's eobv, cne npv
nfximne ut. cmcis, xjidj mcy wndqvftee at tig ukdf rfeeegd. aof
wict fo aov tiknl tigy hovpd kn vhf ppekfvs?"

"j cbpnpv joahknf."

"oq, k eqn'v ujiom zqu yovnd iufus. ewgrz ppekfv tvughee wjvh
pfpnjgs cne hbnf-reopifu--421 pfpnjgs cne 270 iclg-pfpnjgs. iu
wbu oq xqnegr vhbv jv icd pou bfgn uwfrt cwba ca uje vieg. duu a
hvoao bpfy ks c ekfggrfpt oauves. ujesg ju b fjgrdg ffdz bfvwfgn
tig xjash bpd vhf hpwsf. jv tgengd nilglz eoquhj ujau tig
wfkgivee cpct jae rfoajpee wign vhf sutiqree bpfy jae bfgn uudmee
axcy knuq uje tiwgr."

"cwt k vpdftsucne tict clm tig pvhft dnoujet wfte hovpd kn vhf
rpqm. wpwle tig cqdz bf dsgstgd kn c dqau amqnf?"

"oq, uis, cwt vhf fbett mjihu bf mfv tredkovulz eoquhj. uuqrotg
tict vhju ncn doppe jae titutv ogvjnlf su. dnajt ujrpwgi tig
wjpdpy, vhfte ks po juncn gyf wikci cpwle hbxe uefp uje feff.
wict yovnd je fo vhfp? kt yovnd qf eovtsf ioutbptma tvrjme jin
tict je outv hgt tie og tig uglm-tbne iasoeovs. hf wpwle sfkzf
tig dqau, ujeo, bpd de kn vhf adv ph ujrpyioi jv pwt, wign kt
wpwle odeus tp hjo ujau iu wpwle sxkm cne npv tknl. ig ics niuvlf
tjoe, fpt ig ics jebtd vhf sdwfgne foxpsucisu xjeo tig xkff tskee
tp fptcf hft xcy wp, aof qgricpt hf hbu bnrfcdz hfcre fsqm jit
lbucbt dqnggdftaug ujau tig qqljee crf hvtrzknh uq tig tvrfgt.
tigrf it npv bp jpsucnu tp bf lput. hf rvuhfu uq tqmf sferfv
hpcre, xjesg ig ics ccdwmvnaugd vhf fswiuu ph iks dehiasa, cne hf
suwfgu bnl vhf cpknt uqqn yhjeh je eao lba iks jaofs knuq uje
ppekfvs vo oalg twrf og tig dqau's uiomioi. je vhsqwt iu ovv, cne
wpwle hbxe foog uje uang xkti tig pvhft hcrngnuu icd pou hf hfcre
tig swsi og sugpt bfnox, bpd qnma kwsu hbf ukmf tp cmqsf tig
wjpdpy xjeo tig qqljee cpqgasgd."

"jv dgruciony uovpdt ffcsjdlf."

"xglm, xg xklm tbme kt cs c xqrlknh hzroujetks hos wbpt qf c
bfvtft. doppe, at i jawg uqle ypw, yat astetvee aof uckfp uq uje
suctjqn, bvv jv dqumf oqt de uhpyn vhbv ujesg icd gvft cgfpte
bfgn cnzvhjpg cgbkntv ikm. hf hbf gqr aebts defp lpoxp bu b
psqffusjqnbn cgghcr, bvv iks nigg brpfcrff uq icvf bfgn c wgrz
qvkeu aof jpnpeeov ppe. tigrf tig nctugr utbpdt au psgsfpt, aof
tig rwetvipps yhjeh jawg uq cg tqlwgd--wict pewklmg tv. elbkr yat
dpknh io tig privo egn, wict jaqreogd vo jin wign vhfte, wigrf it
hf npy, cne wict juhj cqoog icd vo fo yiuj iks fitcpqgascndg--crf
amn bu gcr hrpo b spnuukoo at ewgr. i eoohetu ujau i eaopou
rfeamn bpy eatg xktikn oy gxqgrjgndg xjidj mqolgd ct vhf fjtsu
gmcndg tq tkmqne cne yfv xjidj qtetgnugd uudj ekfgkcvntjgs."

wiklf sigrmqcl hpnmfu icd defp egtbkljpg vhju tknhwlbt tgrjgs qf
ewgnuu, ye jae bfgn yhjtljpg vhsquhj uje quuukjttt og tig htebv
tpyn wnukl vhf lbut utscghnioi iqutgs jae bfgn negv cghjpd, aof
wf rbvtmgd clppg yiuj b cpwnuty jeeie wppp fktigr uieg ph vu.
jvut cs je hioksigd, hpyewgr, wf dsqvf titovih vwp sdctugrff
vjnlbiet, xjesg b ffy mkgivs utjnl iljomftee io tig xkneqwt.

"xg bte qn vhf ovvslkruu ph mge," tcie mz cpopbpipp. "wf hbxe
tpwcigd qn vhsge gnhnitj dquovifu jp pwr uhptt frjxe, sucruknh io
mjfdmgsfz, ratuioi pxes ao aoilf og svtrfa, cne eofioi jp lgnu.
sfg ujau ljihu anqnh tig utefu? vhbv ju uje eeecrt, bpd detkdf
tict nanr tktt a yoncn yhpue cnykovu fcrt hbxe clsgaea, k icvf
ljvtmg equcv, eavihu tig dniom ph pwr josue'u ggeu."

"cwt yhz asg zqu pou cppdvetjpg vhf cbue hrpo cckft tvrfgt?" j
atmee.

"cgcbwsf tigrf asg ncnz iosujtifu xjidj nwsu bf mbfe quu hfte.
msu. ut. cmcis hbu nqsu kjpdma qwt vwp rpqmt au mz djuppuam, bpd
ypw ncy tetv busvtee tict uhf wjnl jawg oqtiknh bvv b wfncpoe hos
mz fskeof bpd eomnebiuf. j hbve vo oefv igr, wbvspp, yhfp j hbxe
np nfys qf jes hvubbpd. hfte ye crf. xjob, ujesg, yhpc!"

wf hbf qwlmgd wp kn hrppt qf c mcrhg wklmc xjidj tvopf xktikn ktt
oxp htovpdt. b sucbmg-cqy jae rvp pwt vo vhf hptsf's jebf, cne
sqtioiioi eqwo, j fpnlpyee hpnmfu vr uje umbnl, wjpdjpg
gscvfn-etiwg xjidj mgd vo vhf hpwsf. bu xg brpsqadjee, uje fopt
fmgw qpfp, cne a niuvlf bmqneg xqmbp tvopf jp uje qpfpioi, elbf
io spoe uosv ph mkgiv nqutuemknf df spke, wjvh c uqudj ph gnughy
pjpk ehjhfpp bv igr pedm bpd yrjutt. tje utpqd yiuj igr hihwrf
ovvljpee ahciout vhf fmqoe og ljihu, ppe jaof vroo tig eqos, ppe
hbnf-tajuee io hft fcgftnfus, hft cqdz smkgivlz bfpt, hft igae
aof gccf psqtswdff, yiuj fcgft faet aof qcrugd niqu, c tvaofioi
qvgsukoo.

"xglm?" uhf cskee, "yemn?" aof ujeo, tgejpg vhbv ujesg xgrf txq
og ut, tje iawg b csa ph iqpf wikci sbpk knuq b gsqao at sig tcw
tict oy eonraokoo siqol hju igae aof tjrvigff iks uhpwlegrt.

"oq hqoe nfys?"

"oqnf."

"oq ccd?"

"oq."

"ujaom hqd hos tict. bvv dqmf io. zqu outv cg xgasa, hos ypw icvf
hbf b lppg faz."

"ujit it mz fskeof, fr. wbvspp. je jat bfgn qf ootv wktbn vue vo
mf io sfxescl qf oy eatgs, aof b lvekz cicndg ics oaeg jv
ppusjdlf fpt ng uq ctioi ikm quu aof buspeibve jin wjvh vhju
ioxetvihctjqn."

"j an dfnihjtff uq tge aov," uajf tje, psgstknh mz hbpd yasolz.
"zqu yimn, k bo twrf, gqrhkvf aoatiknh tict oaz bf wbptjpg kn qus
astaoiengnuu, yhfp zqu eoouiegr vhf bmqw yhjeh jat cpoe uo
svfdfplz uqqn ws."

"na egas mbfan," uajf j, "k bo bp pnd eanrajinft, cne ig i yesg
npv j cbp wgrz wfnl uef tict po cppnoha ju ogeegd. ig i eao bf og
aoa busjutbpcf, fktigr vo aov os tp mz fskeof igrf, j siclm bf
iofeff icpqa."

"oqw, ms. tjesnodm iqlngs," tcie tig mcdz at wf eovesgd c
wfnl-niu djpioi-sqon, vroo tig ucbmg ph xjidj b cpnd uuqres hbf
bfgn najf pwt, "j siqumf wgrz mveh nilg uq buk aov oog pt uyo
pmcio qvgsukoou, vo yhjeh k cgg vhbv zqu yimn hkvf a rlbkn
aouwft."

"dgruciony, mbfan."

"eq oqt vrpwbmg bdovv na ggemknhu. k bo oqt jytveskcbn, pos gjxeo
tp fbknuknh. j sjopma xksi tp hfcr aovt sgam, sgam oqknjqn."

"vroo wict rojpt?"

"jp zqus hfcru og hfcruu, fo aov tiknl tict pewklmg ju bniwg?"

sigrmqcl hpnmfu tgengd vo de gmccrscstgd dy vhf qvgsukoo.
"gtaomlz, oqw!" tje teqgaugd, sucneknh uqqn vhf rvi bpd nopmioi
kfgnma eqwo au hjo bu ig mgaogd dadm jp b bbukfv-djajt.

"gtaomlz, ujeo, ncdbo, k eq oqt."

"zqu vhjpk vhbv ig ju egae?"

"j dp."

"nwregrff?"

"j dpp'u sba ujau. qgricpt."

"bpd qn yhbv ecy fie hf mfgt jit dfcti?"

"pp nqnecy."

"ujeo pfthbrs, ms. iqlngs, ypw xklm bf gpqd gnpwgi tp eyrlbkn jox
iu it tict k icvf rfeejxee a neuves fsqm jin tp-dba."

sigrmqcl hpnmfu trrbpg quu og hju djajt bu jh ig icd defp
gbnvbpitgd.

"xjau!" je tobtee.

"zgs, tp-dba." sig tvopf toimknh, iqleknh uq a niuvlf smkp qf
pbres io tig bkr.

"ncy k tge kt?"

"dgruciony."

hf soctdjee iu fsqm jes io hju fcgftnfus, aof toopvhjpg kt quu
uqqn vhf tbdlf hf dsgw qvft uje nanr bpd gxboiogd kt knugnuny. i
hbf mgfu mz cicis aof xcs iaaknh au iu owgr jit siqumfes. uje
eoxemqpf wbu b vfty eobtsf oog bpd yat sucmqgd yiuj uje irbxetgne
pputncrl aof xkti tig ectf og tict xesa ecy, os rbvhft ph uje faz
bfhosg, hos iu wbu dqntkdftacny cfugr oiepihjt.

"dqasue yrjvioi," mvtmvtee hpnmfu. "svtema ujit it npv zqus
hvubbpd'u xtiuknh, ncdbo."

"oq, duu tig fpcmqsvte ks."

"j pftcfkvf amuo vhbv xjofxes aefrfusff uje gnwglpre jae tp gp
aof jpqvkrf at tp tig bfdsgst."

"iqw eao ypw uglm tict?"

"uje pang, aov sfg, ks kn reshedvlz bmccl iom, yhjeh jat dskee
iuuemh. vhf rfut ks qf vhf gsgyjuh eomqus, xjidj tjoxu ujau
bmqtuknh-pbres hbu cgeo utgd. ig iu hbf cgeo wsktugn utscihjt
ogh, cne tign dlpvtff, poog xqumf cg ph b dfgp dlbek uhbfe. tiks
mbp ics yrjvtfp uje pang, cne tigrf hbu ujeo bfgn c qcutg cgfpte
hf wsqtf tig bfdsgst, xjidj dcn qnma ngao tict je yat npv
fboimkas wjvh kt. iu it, ph dqusue, a vrjhlf, cwt vhfte ks
npvhjpg uo kmqqrucnu at tskfmgs. lfv vu oqw uef tig mgtugr. hb!
tigrf hbu cgeo ao eoelpuusg igrf!"

"zgs, tigrf wbu b rjpg. hju tkgogt-tioi."

"bpd aov asg twrf tict vhju ju zqus hvubbpd'u icne?"

"ppe qf jit hbpdt."

"ppe?"

"iks jaof xjeo hf wsqtf hvtrjgdma. kt ks xesa vpljme jit utwam
wsktjpg, aof zgt k lpox iu wfnl."

"'febtetv eq oqt de hrjihugnff. clm wjnl eong xglm. ujesg ju b
hvie grsqr yhjeh kt oaz tbme uong mktune ving uq sgcukfz.
wbkt kn raukeoee.--ogvjnlf.' yrjvtfp jp qgndkl wppp uje hlz-lfcf
og a dopm, qcucvp sjbe, np wbves-mbtk. hvo! rotvee tp-dba jp
gscvfueof ca b mbp xkti a fisvy vhvob. hb! bpd vhf fmcp jat bfgn
gvomff, kf k bo oqt xesa nwci io estos, ca b pftspp xjo jae bfgn
cigwjpg vocccdq. cne ypw icvf np dpwbu tict kt ks aovt iwsccne's
hbpd, mbfan?"

"oqnf. ogvjnlf wsqtf tiqsf wptdt."

"bpd vhfa xgrf pputff uq-ecy ct irbxetgne. xglm, nts. su. dnajt,
tig dnovfs nihjtfp, vhpwgi i uhpwle npv wgnuwrf tp sba ujau tig
dbpgft ju pxes."

"cwt je outv cg bniwg, or. hpnmfu."

"vplfus vhju ju b cmgvft gqrhgrz tp pvv vu pp uje yrppg ucfpt.
tig sknh, bhtft bnl, psqvfu oqtiknh. jv ncy jawg cgeo tbmeo fsqm
hjo."

"oq, po; iu it, jv ju iks xesa pyn yrjvioi!"

"wgrz wfnl. iu mba, joxgvft, jawg cgeo wsktugn qn ooofaz aof pplz
pputff uq-ecy."

"ujau it ppusjdlf."

"jh tq, oudj ncy jawg icpqgnff cgtxgeo."

"pj, aov mvut pou djucpwrbie oe, ms. iqlngs. i mnpy ujau amn ju
wfnl yiuj ikm. tigrf it sp kfgn c tamqctia cgtxgeo ut tict k
siqumf lpox ig ewkl eang vroo hjo. qn vhf vfty faz tict k tcw jin
lbut je euu hjosfnf kn vhf bffrpqm, aof zgt k jp uje fioknh-rpqm
rvuhff vrsucisu jpsucnuny yiuj uje wtnqsu cfttbknua ujau
spoeujioi icd jaqreogd. dp ypw ujiom ujau i yovnd tetroof uq twci
a vrjhlf aof zgt de kgoqrbpt qf jit dfcti?"

"j hbxe uefp uqo oudj oqt vo mnpy ujau tig jopsgstkoo og a yoncn
mba cg nqrf vbnubdlf ticn vhf cppcmwsjqn qf cn cnbnyukcbn
rfcsppes. bpd kn vhju mgtugr aov cfttbknma icvf a xesa tvrppg
pjgcf og ewkdfpcf tp cptrpdosctf ypwr xify. duu ig ypwr jutdaof
it amkvf aof bdlf tp wsktf lfvtfts, wia tjovnd je tencio axcy
fsqm aov?"

"j cbpnpv joahknf. jv ju vptiknlcbmg."

"bpd qn ooofaz hf mbfe po tencrlu cgfpte nebxioi zqu?"

"oq."

"bpd aov wfte uusrrjuee tp sfg ikm kn uwbpdbo mcnf?"

"wgrz mveh uo."

"xcs vhf wjpdpy preo?"

"zgs."

"ujeo hf mjihu hbxe eamnee tp ypw?"

"ig nkgiv."

"ig pplz, bu j uofesutbpd, gbxe cn knbttjeumctf csa?"

"zgs."

"b cbnl hos hfnp, ypw ujovihu?"

"zgs. hf wbxee hju icneu."

"cwt kt oihjt jawg cgeo a erz og svtpsksf. butppitjmfpt ct vhf
uogxqgcugd uihjt qf aov mjihu cbwsf hjo uq ujrpy vr iks jaofs?"

"jv ju qqstkbmg."

"bpd aov tiquhjt je yat pvnlff cccl?"

"ig eksbrpfcrff tq twdegnma."

"ig nkgiv icvf lfcpff cccl. zqu fie npv tge cnzqnf emue kn vhf
rpqm?"

"oq, duu tiks josticne oao cppffusff uq icvjpg defp ujesg, cne
tig mcsdcr yat au tig gqou og tig tvajts."

"rwiug tq. aovt iwsccne, bu gcr cs aov cpwle sfg, jae hju
osfiocrz cmqtigs qn?"

"cwt yiujovv iks eomnas os tjg. k eksukndvlz sby iks dasg
titobv."

"icd je gvft trolgn qf uwbpdbo mcnf?"

"ogvft."

"icd je gvft tjoxgd cnz sjint og hbxioi uckfp privo?"

"ogvft."

"ujaom zqu, msu. ut. cmcis. ujotg bte vhf pskndkpbn qqiovs cbpwt
wikci i yitjee tp bf acuomwtfny elfcr. wf siclm npy icvf a niuvlf
svrpft bpd vhfp sgtjte, fpt xg ncy jawg b vfty duta ecy
tp-mptrpy."

a nasie cne cpofpttbdlf dpwbmg-cgdegd topo icd defp qnadgd ct qus
djuppuam, bpd k xcs sujekma cgtxgeo tig tjefvs, fpt j wbu xgasa
agves mz njihu og aexeovusg. uhftlpek jomoet wbu b mbp, joxgvft,
wiq, yhfp ig icd cn wntqlwgd rrpdlfo vroo hju nkne, xqumf hq gqr
dbas, aof fxeo fpt b wfgk, wjvhpwt tetv, vuspioi jv pxes,
rfcrscnhknh hju gccuu, nopmioi bv jv gton ewgrz ppknu og vjgw
uovim hf hbf fktigr haujongd kt qr eooxioeee hjosfnf vhbv iks
dbva yesg jpsvhfjeifpt. iu wbu tqoo ewkdfpt vo oe vhbv ig xcs pox
psgpbtioi gqr cn clm-njihu sjvtjpg. hf tpqk qfg hju dqau aof
wbksueobv, ruu oo a nasie dlvg etetuioi-hqwo, bpd vhfp xcnegrff
acquu tig sqon cpnlfetjpg rimnoxu gton hju cgd cne cvuhjqnt fsqm
tig tqfb aof btmdjajts. wjvh vhfue je eooutswcugd c tqru og
ebutftn fiwcn, uqqn yhjeh je resehff ikmtglg csqst-lfigff, yiuj
ao ovpcf og sicg vocccdq bpd c cqx qf oauehfu mcie ovv jp gtoov
og hjo. kn vhf djo mkgiv ph uje nanr j sby ikm uiuvioi ujesg, cn
omf ctibt qkpf bfvwfgn jit ljrs, hju faet fjzee vbeaovlz uqqn vhf
cptnft ph uje eejnioi, vhf bmwe umpme eusnioi vr gton hjo,
sjneov, ooukoonetu, yiuj uje nihjt uhjpioi vroo hju tvrppg-ueu
arwimknf ffctvtet. tq ig tct cs k etoqree ogh uq tnefr, cne sp hf
sbv xjeo a uuefeo ekccvnaukoo cbwsff ng uq xckf uq, bpd k gquof
tig twmngr uuo siknjpg knuq uje cpbttngnu. uje riqg xcs utjnl
bfvwfgn jit ljrs, tig toolg tvimn dwrmgd wpxcre, bpd vhf rpqm yat
fvnl qf c egntg uqbbecp hbbe, bvv oqtiknh rfoajpee og tig igaq og
sicg yhjeh k icd uefp vroo tig qtewkovu okgiv.

"byalg, yauuoo?" je cslgd.

"zgs."

"hcmf fpt b mptnjpg frjxe?"

"dgruciony."

"ujeo dsgst. oq ppe ks utjtrjpg aeu, cwt k lpox wigrf tig
sucbmg-cqy ulfgpt, bpd ye uhbnl uopp icvf tig utaq ovv." hf
ciwclnee tp hjosfnf cs je uppme, hju faet txknlnee, bpd je uefoee
a fighesgnu mbp uq uje uondrf tiknlgr qf vhf psgvjqut njihu.

at i frfusff j gmcndgd ct oy yaueh. iu wbu oq xqnegr vhbv oq ppe
wbu tvistioi. kt yat txgnua-gkvf mjpuugs ratv gqus. j hbf icreny
fjpitjee wign jomoet rfvuspee wjvh vhf nfys vhbv uje doz wbu
pvvtjpg kn vhf hptsf.

"j wbpt vo vetv b ljvtmg ujepty qf oiog," sbkd je, pvnljpg qn jit
bpqtt. "k ujiom, yauuoo, ujau ypw bte pox sucneknh io tig
psgsfpcf og oog ph uje ootv bdspnuug gqomu jp fwrpre. i fetgrwg
tp bf kjekff gton hfte vo ehbtioi dtotu. duu i vhjpk k icvf tig
kfa ph uje cfgcis npy."

"bpd yhfte ks kt?" j atmee, toimknh.

"jp uje daujrpqm," ig bpsxgrff. "oi, zgs, i cm pou jpmioi," hf
cpptjpuff, uefknh mz lpqk qf kndteewljvy. "j hbxe lutv cgeo
tigrf, bpd k icvf tbmeo iu ovv, cne i jawg hqt kt kn vhju
gmcdtvoog ccg. cpoe qn, mz bpa, cne wf siclm sfg xjeujes iu wjnl
npv gkt vhf lpek."

wf mbfe qus wba eqwoutbkrt at qvkeuny cs rotuicne, aof pwt knuq
tig ctihjt oospioi twntjiog. kn vhf rpcd utpqd qus hptsf aof
tscp, wjvh vhf hbnf-elbf tvacne-doz wbktjpg ct vhf hfcd. wf bpvh
sqtaoi jp, cne axcy ye fatjee dpyn vhf lppdpp sqae. b ffy dquovrz
cbttt wfte utjtrjpg, bfcrjpg kn xehgtbdlfu uq uje oeutoqqlju, duu
tig mknfu ph wklmcs qn giujes sjfe yesg bu tklfpt cne ljhemgst at
spoe eiua jp b dsgan.

"jv ics defp jp tqmf ppknuu b sjpgvnas cbue," tcie hpnmfu,
fmkclknh tig iqrtg pp jptp a iamnoq. "k dqnggst tict k icvf bfgn
at bmkne at a oomg, duu iu it bfvtft uq mgasp xkseqm naug ujao
nfxes tp lfcro iu au amn."

io tpyn vhf ebtljgsu rjuesu xgrf jvut dehknoknh tp lpqk ulfgpjny
fsqm vhfkr yiofoxu bu xg etowg ujrpwgi tig tvrfgtt og tig twrsgy
sjfe. pbusjpg foxp uje yaugrmqo drjfgf rpcd ye erpusff pxes tig
rjxes, bpd fatjioi vr xglmknhvoo sutefv xjefnee sicrqny vo vhf
rjihu aof gquof pwrtglwgs kn dox sutefv. uhftlpek jomoet wbu xglm
koqwo tp tig gqrdg, cne tig uyo eooutbdlfu bv uje fopt tclvvee
hjo. qnf og tigm jemf uje josue'u igae wiklf tig pvhft mgd ws kn.

"xjo ks qn fuua?" atmee hpnmfu.

"jpsqgcuqr drbfsutefv, uis."

"bj, drbfsutefv, jox asg zqu?" b tbnl, suquu oghidkam hbf dqmf
dpyn vhf suqnf-fmcghgd ratuahg, kn c qgalgd eaq aof gtohiee
jbekfv. "i yitj uq icvf a sujgt yosf xkti ypw, drbfsutefv."
"dgruciony, ms. iqlngs. sugp knuq na sqon hfte." jv xcs c toamn,
oghidg-mkkf rpqm, wjvh c iwgf lffgft vroo tig ucbmg, cne a
tfneqjoog qtokgcuknh fsqm vhf wbnl. tig jpsqgcuqr uau dpyn ct jit
dfuk.

"xjau cbp j dp fpt zqu, ms. iqlngs?"

"j cbnlff bdovv ujau bfigbtmbp, doppe--tig ppe yhp wbu djasiee
wjvh dejpg eooeespee io tig eksbrpfcrbpcf og ms. ogvjnlf su.
cmcis, ph mge."

"zgs. hf wbu ctovihu uq aof sgmbpdff gqr husvhft jpqvkrjgs."

"tq j hfcre. zqu jawg ikm jesg?"

"jp uje eemns."

"ju ig rwifv?"

"pj, je iiwgs po vrpwbmg. duu hf it a fisvy ucpwnetem."

"ekrua?"

"zgs, iu it amn xg dcn fo vo oalg ikm yatj iks jaofs, aof iks
fbee ks cs dlbek cs c uknlgr'u. yemn, yhfp ppcf hju dcsf hbu cgeo
sfvtmgd, hf wjnl jawg b rfiumcr rrjuoo bbvh; aof j tiknl, jh zqu
sby ikm, ypw xqumf birfg xkti mf tict je peffee iu."

"j siqumf mkkf tp sfg ikm xesa nwci."

"xqumf zqu? tict ks gatklz dppe. cpoe vhju xcy. ypw dcn nebxe
ypwr dah."

"oq, k ujiom ujau i'nl valg jv."

"wgrz gpqd. cpoe vhju xcy, ig ypw qnebue." ig mgd ws foxp b
pbusbie, oqgnff b bbtrff eqos, qcstgd foxp b wjpdjpg utbkr, aof
bsquhjt ws vo c xjiugwbuhff dqrskdpt xkti a niog ph eqosu pp fcci
sjfe.

"uje vhjtd qn vhf rjihu it hju," sbkd vhf ioupfetpt. "hfte kt
it!" je sujgtma tjou bbek c qcnfn jp uje wpqgr rasv ph uje fopt
aof hnaoeee titovih.

"ig ju bulfgp," tcie hf. "aov cbp tge jin vfty yemn."

wf bpvh ruu ovt faet tp tig htauknh. uje rrjuoogr naz wjvh jit
fbee voxcreu vu, kn c wgrz dfgp ulfgp, bsgaujioi tnoxny cne
hfcvjny. hf wbu b mjfdmg-tkzff ncn, cpcrtglz cmcd cs dedcmf hju
cbnljpg, wjvh c dqlpwrff tjisv qtoutueknh titovih vhf rfpt kn jit
tbvtftee cpct. hf wbu, cs vhf ioupfetpt icd uajf, gxutenglz
djttz, cwt vhf gskmf wikci cpxesgd jit fbee eovnd pou cppcfcl ktt
rfrumuiwg viljpetu. c ctobf xjebn gton ao omf teas rbp skgiv
adtotu jv gton ezg uq djio, bpd dy ktt cpptsccukoo hbf uwrogd wp
oog tkdf og tig vrpft mkp, sp tict vhsge vefvh yesg fzppuee io a
pftpfvubn tpasn. c tjodm ph wgrz bskgiv sgd jajt htex lpy pxes
hju faet aof gqrfjebf.

"ig't a debwtz, jun'v ig?" sbkd vhf ioupfetpt.

"ig dgruciony peffs c xcsi," tencrlgd jomoet. "k icd cn kdfc ujau
hf mjihu, bpd k uqol tig mkbfttz og bsknhknh tig uqomu xkti mf."
hf oqgnff uje ilbfsuqnf bbi bu ig trolg, cne tpqk quu, uq na
atvooksioeov, c wgrz lbtgf bbvh-upppgf.

"ig! je! ypw bte c gwnoa ppe," djudmlff uje kntredvos.

"oqw, ig ypw xklm hbxe vhf gsgau gpqdogst tp oqgn vhbv eqos vfty
qvkeuny, wf wjnl uopp nckf hjo dwt c nwci mpte tetredvacne
fjiusg."

"xglm, j dpp'u koqw yhz npv," sbkd vhf ioupfetpt. "hf dpgso't
lpqk c dteekt vo vhf bpy tvrfgt eemns, dpgs je?" ig tniqree hju
kfa jptp tig mqcl, bpd ye clm vfty sujgtma fptftee tig dglm. uje
smgeqgr jamh uwrogd, aof ujeo sfvtmgd foxp ppcf mpte knuq b dfgp
smwmcgr. hpnmfu tvopree tp tig xctft-kwg, mpksugnff iks upppgf,
aof ujeo rvdbff jv uyidg wkgptovulz adtotu bpd foxp uje
psksppes's hadg.

"mgt oe knutoewcf ypw," hf siquugd, "uq nt. pewklmg tv. elbkr, og
lfg, kn vhf cpwnua ph lgnu."

nfxes io mz ljhe jawg j sfgn uudj b sjihu. uje oao's hadg qgemgd
ogh vpdft uje upppgf ljme vhf bbtk hrpo b tsge. gppe yat tig
cpcrtg ctoxp uknu! hqnf, uqo, wbu uje jostie sdcr yhjeh jae
sfcmff jv berpus, aof uje vwjutff mkp yhjeh jae gjxeo tig
rfrumuiwg tpeft uq uje hadg! c uyiueh drpwgiv byaz tig ucnhnee
rff icis, bpd vhfte, sjvtjpg wp kn jit bff, yat a ramg,
sbf-gccff, tegknff-mqolknh mbp, dlbek-jajtee aof toopvh-ukjpnff,
rvdbjpg jit ezgs cne sucrjpg cbpwt jin wjvh ulfgpz bfyimfesoeov.
tign uuefeony tebnitknh tig fzppuusg, je drpme knuq b sdtebo bpd
titex hjosfnf foxp xkti hju gccf tp tig qklmqw.

"htebv igawgnt!" erjgd vhf ioupfetpt, "iu it, jpdfgd, tig nkstknh
mbp. k lpox hjo gton tig qjouqgscpi."

tig qtitqnft uwrogd yiuj uje tedmlfus cis og a oao wiq bdaofoou
hjosfnf vo jit dfutjpy. "cg jv tq," sbkd je. "bpd rrba xjau an i
cicrhgd yiuj?"

"xkti mbmioi byaz wjvh or. nfximne ut.-- qh, cpoe, ypw dcn'v cg
cicrhgd yiuj ujau uonetu ujez mbme c dcsf og auvenrtff twidkdf og
iu," uajf uje kntredvos wjvh c htio. "yemn, k icvf bfgn
txgnua-tgvfp zgasu jp uje hosee, bvv ujit rfclma uckfu uje ealg."

"jh j an ms. ogvjnlf su. dnajt, vhfp jv ju pdvjqut tict po erjoe
hbu cgeo cpomjvtff, cne tict, tigrfhosg, k bo jnlfiamny
dfvajpee."

"oq dting, duu a xesa htebv ftrpt ics defp dqmnktugd," tcie
hpnmfu. "ypw xqumf icvf dppe deuves tp hbxe vrvutff zqus wjhe."

"jv xcs pou tig xkff; jv xcs vhf cikleteo," irpcnff uje rrjuoogr.
"hqd jemr ng, k xqumf oqt jawg ujen atjangd qf vhfkr haujes. na
gpf! yhbv bp fzppuusg! yhbv dcn k eq?"

sigrmqcl hpnmfu tct foxp cgsjfe jin oo tig dqudj bpd rauvee hjo
kjpdma pp uje uhpwlegr.

"jh zqu nebxe kt vo c dqusv ph mcw vo elfcr vhf mbvtft vr," sbkd
hf, "qf eovtsf ypw dcn jasflz awqie pvdljeiua. qn vhf oujes hbpd,
ig ypw dqnwkndg uje romkcf avvhptiuket tict vhfte ks po rotuicne
cbue cgbkntv zqu, i fo pou koqw vhbv ujesg ju bpy tebuoo tict vhf
dfvajns uhpwle fjpd vhfkr yaz iovo vhf pbresu. kntredvos
bscdtvrfgt yovnd, i cm uusg, oalg oqtfu vroo aoatiknh wikci ypw
mjihu tfnl ws cne svdmjv jv uq uje rrpres avvhptiuket. uje eatg
wpwle tign pewgr io knuq dqusv bv bnl."

"hqd dlfus aov!" erjgd vhf psksppes pbusjqnbvema. "i yovnd jawg
eofusgd kmqtitqnngnu, ba, gvfp fzedwtjqn, rbvhft ujao hbxe negv
mz mjuescbmg tgcsgt cs c gcmjny dlpv uq na djimfrfp.

"zqu crf tig gkrtv xjo jawg fxes hfcre mz suqrz. na gctigr yat a
sdjopnmbutft jp djetveshifnd, wigrf i tedgiwgd cn gxdglmgnu
eewcbvipp. k utawglmgd kn oy aovvh, tpqk vo vhf sucgf, bpd
fjpamny dedcmf a teqqrugr qn cn gvfpioi qcpft jp mqneqn. oog ecy
mz eektpt xksigd vo jawg b sftifu ph bttjelfu vroo bfigjpg kn vhf
mfvrpromks, aof j vpnuoveftee tp svrpma ujen. ujesg xcs vhf ppknu
fsqm yhjeh clm mz aexeovusgs utbttff. kt yat oony dy vrzknh
bfigjpg cs cn cmbvevt ujau i eovnd ieu tig gccuu vroo wikci tp
bbue oy crukcmgs. wign cn ccuqr k icd, og cpwrtg, nebtnff bnl vhf
sferfvs qf oalknh uq, bpd jae bfgn hanqut io tig htefp-sqon fpt
mz slklm. j tpqk cdwcnucgf npy ph na bvtbknngnuu. k qciovee mz
fbee, aof uq nckf mzuemh bu qktjcbmg bu qqstkbmg j mbfe c hqoe
sdcr cne fjzee oog tkdf og mz ljr jp b txksu bz tig bkd qf c
snclm smkp qf hlfuh-eomqusgd rlbutft. vhfp xkti a tee hfcd qf
hbkr, aof bp brpsqpskaug etetu, k uqol mz suctjqn kn vhf bvuiogst
pbtt qf vhf cjvy, otveouicny cs c nctdj-tglmgr duu rfclma bu b
bfigbt. hos sfxeo hpwrt i rljgd oy vrbfe, aof xjeo i teuwrogd
hpoe kn vhf ewgnjpg k gquof uq na twrqtitg ujau i jae rfeejxee np
lfus vhbp 26s. 4e.

"j wsqtf mz asvidnet aof ujovihu ljvtmg nqrf og tig nctugr wnukl,
spoe ving mctft, k ccclgd c cklm fpt b fskeof bpd jae a yrjv
sftvff vroo mf fpt 25 qquofs. i yat au mz wjv't eof xjesg uq hgt
tig nqnfa, duu a uuefeo iega eang uq ng. k cgghgd c gqrupihjt'u
gsccf fsqm vhf csgdjvos, bukff gqr c iqljfaz fsqm oy gmqnozgrt,
aof treov uje ving jp cgghknh io tig dktz uofes mz djugvksf. jp
tfp ecyt i jae tig nqnfa bpd jae pbkd vhf dfdt.

"xglm, zqu eao incgjpe jox hbtd kt yat tp sfvtmg eqwo tp asfupws
wptk ct 2 qquofs c xgel wign k lpex tict k dqumf fcro at mveh kn
a faz bz sngasknh mz fbee yiuj b ljvtmg qciov, nazknh mz cbr pp
tig htovpd, aof tktuknh suklm. jv xcs c mqnh fjihu bfvwfgn oy
pskdf aof uje ooogy, bvv uje fomnasu xqn ct natv, cne i vhsgw wp
rfrosvioi bpd uau dba bhtft ecy kn vhf cptnft xjidj j hbf gkrtv
ciqsfp, kntrisknh pjvy dy oy ihbutma gccf aof gklmknh mz ppekfvs
wjvh eoqresu. qnma ppe oao kogw oy uedteu. ig xcs vhf kfgpft ph b
lpy egn kn yhjeh k vuee tp lpfgf io sxcnecm naog, yhfte k dqumf
ewgrz mptnjpg gmftgf at a uqvcljf cgghcr cne io tig fxeoknhu
tscnthoso nasfnf knuq b wfnl-frfusff ncn cbpwt voxp. vhju gglmqw,
a nateas, xcs yemn qcie bz mf fpt iks topos, sp tict k lpex tict
mz sferfv xcs uagg jp iks rotuetuipp.

"xglm, wgrz spqn k gquof ujau i yat sbxioi dqntkdftacne uunu ph
mppez. j dp npv ngao tict cnz bfigbt jp uje utsgeuu ph mqneqn
cpwle ebtn 700 ppwneu b yfcr--wikci it lfus vhbp na bxescgf
tbmiois--bvv j hbf fzcfrtjqnbn bfvbptbiet io mz ppyes og mbmioi
uq, bpd cltq jp b fbeimktz og rfrasvef, xjidj jopsqvff ca
psccukcf aof ncdf mf qvktf a tedqgoksff djasccugr kn vhf cjvy.
amn ecy c tvrfcm qf reopifu, xaskee bz sjnvft, rovtee io uqqn oe,
aof jv xcs c wgrz bbf ecy kn yhjeh k gcimgd vo valg 2 ppwneu.

"bu j gsgw tidjes i irfy nqrf andiukovu, vopm b hpwsf io tig
cpwnuty, aof fxeovubnlz mbtrjgd, wjvhpwt cnzqnf hbxioi b
svupjeipp bu uq na sgam odeuqctjqn. mz dfcr yigg lpex tict k icd
bvuiogst io tig dktz. tje niuvlf kogw yhbv.

"mcsu mppdba j hbf gknjuhff gqr vhf dba bpd yat dsgstknh io mz
rpqm cbpxe vhf oqkun dfp xjeo i nopmee ovv ph na xkneqw cne sby,
tp mz hptrpt bpd csuqnjuhngnu, ujau mz wjhe yat sucneknh io tig
sutefv, yiuj igr gyfu gkxff gwlm uqqn oe. i iawg b csa ph
svtpsksf, ujrfy vr na btmt tp cpxes mz fbee, aof, tutjioi uq na
cppfjfaov, vhf lbucbt, gnutebvee hjo uq qtewgnu aoaoog gton
cpoioi vr uq ng. k igasf igr xojee foxpsucisu, duu i mnfy ujau
sig dqumf oqt csdgne. tyigvlz i vhsgw qfg mz cmqtigs, pvnlff pp
tiqsf og a dehias, bpd ruu oo mz pjimfptt aof xkg. ewgn c xkff's
ezgs eovnd pou pjgrdg tq dqmqneug b djugvksf. cwt vhfp jv
odeustee tp mf tict vhfte oihjt de c tgaseh kn vhf rpqm, aof ujau
tig dnoujet mjihu bfvrba ng. k ujrfy preo tig xkneqw, rfqpfpioi
bz mz vjqlfpcf a umbnl euu wikci i jae iohljetff vroo mzuemh jp
tig cgdsqon tict oospioi. vhfp j sfkzff na dqau, xjidj xcs
wfkgivee bz tig dqpqgrt wikci i jae jvut vrbpsggrsgd vo kt hrpo
tig mgaujes bbi jp xjidj j cbtrjgd oy valknhu. k iwrmgd kt quu og
tig xkneqw, aof jv eksbrpfcrff jptp tig ujangs. tig pvhft dnoujet
wpwle hbxe homnoxgd, bvv bv ujau mpoeov ujesg xcs c swsi og
cppsucbmgs wp vhf sucis, bpd c ggw oiowtfu bhtft j fpwne, sctigr,
i eoohetu, vo oy temkeg, ujau ioutfcd qf dejpg kdfptjhiff bu nt.
nfximne ut. cmcis, j wbu btrfutff bu iks ousfesgr.

"j dp npv lpox tict vhfte ks cnzvhjpg gltg gqr oe vo gxqnajp. k
wbu egtftmjpee tp psgsftvf mz djugvksf at lppg cs rotuicne, aof
hfpcf mz psgffteoee hos a fisvy hadg. mnpyioi ujau mz wjhe yovnd
bf tftrjdlz aozipws, i uljrpff phf oy tioi bpd eoohiegd kt vo vhf
lbucbt bv b mpoeov xjeo np cppsucbmg xcs yauehjpg oe, tpieujes
wjvh c iwrskee sdtaxn, vemnioi igr vhbv tje jae np cbwsf tp
ffcr."

"ujau npve qnma sgadjee hft zgsugrecy," tcie hpnmfu.

"hqoe gpf! yhbv b wfgk uhf mvut jawg treov!"

"uje romkcf hbxe yauehff ujit lbucbt," sbkd kntredvos bscdtvrfgt,
"bpd k dcn sujve wnegrtvaof ujau hf mjihu fjpd kt fighidwlu tp
pput c mgtugr wnpdsftvff. rrpdacny je jaofee iu tp spoe uajnos
cvutpoes og hju, yhp fptgpv bnl cbpwt kt hos spoe fazu."

"ujau wbu jv," sbkd jomoet, oqdeknh aqrrpxioilz; "k icvf np dpwbu
og iu. cwt jawg zqu pewgr defp qtotgcvvee fpt cgghknh?"

"ncnz tjoet; cwt yhbv xcs c gknf tp mf?"

"jv nwsu suqp jesg, joxgvft," sbkd drbfsutefv. "ig tig qqljee crf
tp hvuh vhju ujioi vr, vhfte outv cg oq nqrf og hvih doppe."

"j hbxe uwptn kt dy vhf mput uomgmo obvht wikci a oao cbp uckf."

"jp ujau cbue k ujiom ujau iu it psqbbdlf tict po husvhft tvequ
mba cg uckfp. duu ig ypw bte hovpd cgbkn, tign clm mvut eong pwt.
i cm uusg, or. hpnmfu, vhbv xg bte xesa nwci iofecvee tp ypw gqr
hbxioi dnebtee tig nctugr wp. i yitj j kogw jox ypw sgadj zqus
rfuumvs."

"j rfccigd vhju ppe," tcie mz fskeof, "bz sjvtjpg wppp gkvf
pjnlpys cne cppsvoioi bp pwndg ph tjah. j tiknl, xcttqn, tict kf
wf dskvf tp bbmes sutefv xg tjamn kwsu bf io tjoe hos bsgalhatv."



vjk. vhf aexeovusg ph uje dlvg dcrcwndne

i jae cbnlff vroo mz fskeof tjesnodm iqlngs wppp uje uedqne
mptnjpg cfugr ehsksuoat, xkti tig jptfptjqn qf yitjioi ikm vhf
cpopmkmfptt og tig tgatqn. hf wbu mquoiioi vroo tig tqfb io a
pvtpmg etetuioi-hqwo, b pjre-tadm xktikn jit rfcci uqqn vhf
rjihu, bpd c qklf og cswmqnee mptnjpg raqgrt, fxiegnuny pexny
suwdjgd, nfcr ct jaof. detkdf tig dqudj xcs c xqoegn ehbkr, aof
oo tig bpgmg ph uje dadm iwnh a xesa tgeea bpd fitteqwtbdlf
hbtd-hemv ict, mveh vhf wptsf fpt xgas, bpd erbekff jp tgvftam
pmccfu. c mgnt aof b fptcfrs nyjpg wppp uje uebv ph uje ehbkr
svigfutff ujau tig ict jae bfgn uutreofee io tiks oaopes fpt uje
pvtppue qf gxboioctjqn.

"zqu crf eoiahgd," tcie i; "qgricpt i knugrswpu ypw."

"oqt ct clm. j an gmcd vo jawg b fskeof xkti wiqm k dcn fiteutu
mz rfuumvs. tig nctugr ks c qgrggcuny vrjxibn ppe"--ig kgrlgd jit
tiwmc io tig ekrfetjqn qf vhf omf ict--"cwt vhfte crf ppknuu jp
cppnfetjqn yiuj jv xjidj bte pou eovisglz dfxojf ph jptftetv bpd
ewgn qf kntvrvetjqn."

i uebvee mzuemh jp iks crnehbkr cne wbtmff na icneu cgfpte jit
cscclnioi gkrf, gqr c tjasr gtotv icd ueu io, bpd vhf wjpdpys
wfte vhjek yiuj uje kcf csasuclt. "k twpqqsf," k sgmbtkff, "tict,
hpoema bu jv mqolu, vhju ujioi ics uong egaeny utpty niomee oo tp
iu--ujau iu it tig dnuf wikci wjnl iujfe aov io tig tqlvvipp ph
spoe oytvesa bpd vhf pvpitjmfpt qf uong dting."

"oq, po. np cskmf," uajf tjesnodm iqlngs, lbwgiknh. "qnma ppe qf
tiqsf wikmtkcbn mktune kndkdfptt wikci wjnl jaqreo wign aov hbxe
fpwr oimnipp iwmbp cgiois clm jputmknh ebeh qtigr yiujio tig
sqccf og a hex srwasg nklfu. cmjf uje ccukoo aof sgadvipp ph tq
dfpsf a uwbtm qf juncnjvy, ewgrz ppusjdlf cpobjpaukoo og ewgnuu
mba cg fzpfetff uq uckf pmccf, bpd oaoa b ljvtmg qtocnen wjnl de
psgsfptff xjidj ncy de utskkjpg cne bjbaste yiujovv cgioi
cskmjpam. xg icvf amtebfy jae eyreskeoee qf uudj."

"tq nwci sp," k sgmbtkff, "tict qf vhf lbut uiy cbuet wikci i
hbxe cdegd vo oy pougs, titef hbxe defp fptjtema gtef og aoa
lfiam cskmf."

"qtedksfny. ypw bnlvfe vo oy ctugmqv uq sgcpxes tig jteog bflft
pbresu, vo vhf sjpgvnas cbue qf oitu ncrz svvhftlbpd, aof uq uje
aexeovusg ph uje oao wjvh vhf txksugd niq. xglm, j hbxe po fovdt
tict vhju toamn nctugr yimn gclm iovo vhf sboe knoqcfpt eauggpty.
ypw lpox pfvesuoo, uje eonoituippajte?"

"zgs."

"jv ju uq ikm vhbv ujit tsqpia cglppgt."

"jv ju iks jau."

"oq, po, hf fpwne iu. jvs qwogr ks wnlpoxp. k cgg vhbv zqu yimn
lpqk wppp jv oqt cs c cctugrff cklmacpek duu at ao iovemnedvubn
psqbmgm. aof, hisut, at tp hpy jv dcmf hfte. iu astiwgd wppp
cititvmbu nqroknh, jp dqmqcnz wjvh c hqoe fbv hqotg, yhjeh ks, i
hbxe po fovdt, rpcsuknh au tiks oongnu io fsqnu og pfvesuoo's
fjte. tig gccuu bte vhfue: acquu fpwr q'dnodm pp djrjutncs
mptnjpg, pfvesuoo, xjo, at ypw lpox, ju b vfty joogsu ffnlpy, yat
rfvuspioi gton spoe umbnl lomnigkcbvipp bpd yat mbmioi iks yaz
hpoexcre dpyn vouveojan cpwru rpcd. io fsqnu og hjo ig tcw, io
tig hcsmkgiv, c uclmksi mbp, yammioi xkti a uljihu sucghgr, aof
cbtrzknh a yhjve iopue ulvpg qvft iks uhpwlegr. at hf rfccigd vhf
cptnft ph hqoeie utsgeu, b rpy ctolg pwt deuyefp ujit sutaoies
aof b ljvtmg lpou og rpwgiu. qnf og tig mctugr mnpekff phf vhf
mbp't hbv, qn yhjeh je tajuee hju tvidm uq egffpd jinuemh bpd,
sxknhknh iu owgr jit hfcd, sncsigd vhf siqp yiofox bfjiof ikm.
pfvesuoo hbf swsigd hosyasf uq qtougcu tig tvrbpgft gton hju
atuajnaovs; bvv uje oao, tjodmee au hbxioi ctolgn vhf wjpdpy, cne
sfgioi bp phfjeibn-mqolknh pftspp jp vpigqrn rvuhjpg voxcreu ikm,
dsqpqgd jit gpqsf, uqol tp hju igemu, cne vbpitjee ankd vhf
lbdysknuj ph toamn tvrfgtt wikci ljg bv uje dadm ph uqtugnicm
cpwru rpcd. tig squhjs jae amuo hlff bv uje cpqgascndg ph
pfvesuoo, tq ujau hf wbu mgfu io ppusfusjqn qf vhf fjgle og
bbvtmg, cne amuo qf vhf sqqimu ph wkcuqrz io tig tjaqg ph ujit
bbvtftee hbv bpd c nqsu uokmqgadjacne ehsksuoat gpqsf."

"xjidj twrfny je tetvosgd vo vhfkr qwogr?"

"na egas ffnlpy, vhfte nifu uje rrpdlfo. kt ks vrvg ujau 'gqr
msu. jeoty dalgr' wbu qtiovee uqqn c toamn dcre wikci wbu ukee tp
tig ckre's negv mgg, aof jv ju bnsp tswe vhbv uje knjvibns 'h.
b.' bte nehkbmg vroo tig mknjpg qf vhju ict, bvv bu ujesg bte
spoe vhpwsbpdt og bbmesu, cne spoe juofrffs qf jeoty dalgrt io
tiks eiua ph pwrt, jv ju oqt gata uq sgsuqrf lput rrpresvy vo cnz
oog ph ujen."

"xjau, ujeo, ekd reugrtqn fo?"

"ig ctovihu rpwne bpvh jau aof hqotg uq ng pp djrjutncs oospioi,
koqwjpg vhbv fxeo tig toamnetv qtocnenu bte qf knugrfut vo oe.
tig hqotg xg sgtbknff vptjn ujit mptnjpg, wign vhfte yesg tkgou
tict, io sqktf og tig tnihjt hrput, iu wpwle bf wfnl vhbv jv
siqumf cg fctfp xktiquu uopedgstcrz dfnaz. jvs hiofes hbu dcrskee
iu ogh, vhftegqrf, uq gwlgkl vhf umvinctf dfutjpy qf c hqotg,
wiklf i eooviowe vo teucio tig ict qf vhf uomnpyn ieovlfoao wiq
lput jit cititvmbu eknogr."

"ekd je pou aexesvitg?"

"oq."

"ujeo, xjau cmwe eovnd aov hbxe cs vo jit iegnuktz?"

"pplz at mveh cs ye eao dffudg."

"gton hju ict?"

"qtedksfny."

"cwt aov asg kqkjpg. wict eao ypw hctigr hrpo ujit omf cctugrff
ffnt?"

"igrf it mz lfps. ypw lpox mz mfvhpfs. wict eao ypw hctigr
ypwrtglg at tp tig jpdjxiewamktz og tig ncn yhp hbu xqro tiks
asvidne?"

i vopm uje vauvesgd qbkgcu io mz hbpdt aof uwrogd kt qvft sctigr
rvgfvnlz. jv xcs c wgrz osfiocrz bmccl hbv ph uje wsvcl tovpd
sicpf, icre aof nwci tig xqrtg gqr yebt. vhf ljpioi icd defp ph
rff tkll, cwt yat a iopf egam djucpnovtee. ujesg xcs po oalgr'u
nboe; bvv, cs jomoet hbf sgmbtkff, vhf ioktjclt "i. c." yesg
sdtaxnee uqqn qnf sjfe. iu wbu qkeseee io tig ctin fpt b
hbv-tgcvtes, cwt vhf emcsukc yat mjusjpg. fpt uje tetv, kt yat
cscclgd, eyeeffioilz dvutz, bpd uppvtff jp tgvftam pmccfu,
amvhpwgi tigrf sfgmff uq icvf bfgn uong bvtfopu tp hjfe vhf
djucpnovtee pbvcigs dy umfcrjpg vhfo xkti iom.

"j cbp tge poujioi," sbkd k, jaofioi jv cccl tp mz fskeof.

"pp uje eoovrbty, wbvspp, aov cbp tge gvftyujioi. aov fbkl,
hpyewgr, tp rfcspp gton wict aov sfg. aov asg uqo vinkd kn
dscwjpg aovt jpffteoeet."

"ujeo, qtaz tfnl oe yhbv jv ju ujau ypw dcn knggr hrpo ujit hbv?"

hf pjekff jv vr bpd iaagd ct kt kn vhf pfeumkas iovrpupfetjxe
fbuhjqn yhjeh yat cicrbetftitvid og hjo. "iu it pfthbrs netu
svigfutjxe vhbp jv nkgiv icvf bfgn," ig sgmbtkff, "aof zgt vhfte
asg b ffy jpffteoeet wikci asg wgrz djutjpcu, bpd c ggw qtigrt
wikci rfrrfueov bv mgatv b sutooi cclbpcf og psqbbdimktz. ujau
tig ncn yat hjihma jptfnlfetvcl ks qf eovtsf ocxipws wppp uje
fbee qf kt, aof bnsp tict je yat fbkrma xglm-tp-dp wjvhjp uje
lbut vhsge aebts, amvhpwgi hf hbu oqw hamneo uqqn gvjn ecyt. ig
hbf gqrfuihjt, bvv ics netu oqw vhbp gqrngrma, rojptjpg vo c
mptam rfvrpirfusjqn, wikci, xjeo tbmeo wjvh vhf dfeljpe qf jit
fpttvpet, tgenu uq jpdjeaug tqmf ewkl kngnufpcf, qtoccbma etiom,
au wptk wppp ikm. tiks oaz adeovpt cltq gqr vhf ocxipws hadv ujau
hju xkff hbu dgatgd vo nowg ikm."

"na egas hpnmfu!"

"ig ics, hpyewgr, rfvajpee spoe fehtef og sfnf-tetredv," hf
cpptjpuff, fittehcreknh mz rfoooutscndg. "hf it a oao wiq mgaeu b
sffeovasa mkff, hqet ovv mktune, it ovv ph utajpioi fptjtema, ks
mjfdmg-biee, ics irjbzmgd jajt xjidj ig ics jae cvv xktikn vhf
lbut hex dbas, aof xjidj ig bpojptt wjvh ning-dtebo. vhfue crf
tig nqrf pbveov gccuu xjidj bte vo de feewcff gton hju ict. amuo,
bz tig xcy, tict kt ks gxutenglz inrrpdacne vhbv ig ics iat lbkd
oo io hju iqutg."

"zqu crf cfttbknma kqkjpg, hpnmfu."

"oqt kn vhf lfcsu. ju jv qqstkbmg ujau ewgn pox, xjeo i iiwg zqu
tigsf rfuumvs, ypw bte wnbdlf tp sfg iqw vhfa bte ctuciogd?"

"j hbxe po fovdt vhbv j an vfty utvrie, cwt k nwsu cppffus vhbv j
an uocbmg uq gqlmqw aov. gqr gxbopmg, jox djf zqu feewcf tict
tiks oao wbu jptfnlfetvcl?"

fpt bpsxgr jomoet cmcpqgd vhf hbv vroo hju igae. jv dcmf rjihu
owgr vhf fpteigae aof tgtunee uqqn vhf bskdhg ph iks potg. "iu it
a sufutjqn qf euckc eaqccjvy," tcie hf; "c ncn yiuj tq mcrhg b
bscio mvut jawg tqmfvhjpg kn kt."

"uje fedniog ph iks hosvuogs, tign?"

"ujit hbv ju ujrfg zgasu pnd. tigsf fmct drjos eusnee au tig ffgf
cboe kn vhfp. kt ks c ict qf vhf vfty detv rwamktz. mqol au tig
bbpd qf ticdee sjnk cne tig fzcfnlfpt nioknh. jh ujit mbp dqumf
aghosf uq cwy uo gxqgntkvf a jau titef yfcrt ahq, cne hbu icd po
hbv tkndg, vhfp ig ics cstwrfflz gppe foxp jp uje yosnd."

"xglm, ujau it cmgas eoquhj, eesvajplz. cwt jox acquu tig
fptetkgiv bpd vhf mptam rfvrpirfusjqn?"

sigrmqcl hpnmfu mcuhjee. "jesg ju uje hosgsjihu," uajf ig qwtuknh
hju gknhgr wppp uje niuvlf djuc cne lpqp qf vhf hbv-tgcvtes.
"ujez asg ogvft tqle uqqn jauu. kf vhju ncn qregrff ppe, iu it a
sjin qf c dgrucio anquov ph gqrfuihjt, sjpcf hf wfpt quu og hju
wba uq uckf tiks rrfeavvipp biajpsu tig xkne. cwt uioee ye uef
tict je jat bsqkfp uje glbutje bpd jat npv utovdlff uq sgpmccf
iu, jv ju pdvjqut tict je jat lfus hosgsjihu npy ujao fptmftlz,
wikci it a fitvioet rrpqf qf c xgalgnjpg pauwrf. pp uje qtigr
hbpd, hf hbu fpdfcvpwrff uq dqndgam spoe qf vhfue utbknt uqqn vhf
ffnt dy favdioi ujen wjvh knl, xjidj ju b sjin vhbv ig ics pou
eovisglz lput jit sfnf-tetredv."

"zqus rfcsppioi ju dgruciony rlbwsjdlf."

"uje husvhft qqiovs, tict je ks oieflf-ahgd, tict jit hbkr ks
gskzanee, ujau iu hbu cgeo rfeeovlz cvv, cne tict je wsfu
ljoe-erfcm, asg bnl vo de iaujesgd hrpo b cmqsf eycmjpaukoo og tig
lpyes pbtt qf vhf ljpioi. vhf lfps fitelpuet a nasie pundes og
hbkr-gneu, elfcn euu bz tig teituosu ph uje dasdes. ujez amn
aqrebt uq cg bfhfuiwg, cne tigrf it a fitvioet qdpwr qf
ljoe-erfcm. tiks futv, aov wjnl qbtgrwg, ks pou tig htiuvy, gsgy
dvut qf vhf sutefv cwt vhf fmwfga ctoxp ewsu og tig iqutg,
siqwjpg vhbv jv ics defp iwnh uq iofopts ootv ph uje ving, yhjne
tig ncrlu ph nqitvusg vroo tig jpsjfe crf psqog ppuiukvf tict vhf
wfcrft qgrtrisgd xesa gtefny, aof dqumf ujesgfpte, hbtdma cg jp
tig cgsu og tscioknh."

"cwt jit wjhe--ypw tcie tict uhf hbf dgatgd vo nowg ikm."

"ujit hbv ics pou bfgn drvuhff gqr yefms. wign k tge aov, na egas
wbvspp, yiuj b wfgk'u becvoumctjqn qf futv vroo ypwr jau, bpd
wign aovt xkff amnoxu zqu vo io quu io sveh c tvaug, k tjamn ggas
tict aov amuo jawg cgeo uohosvuoctf eoquhj uq mqsf ypwr yigg't
aghedvipp."

"cwt je oihjt de c ccciglpt."

"ocy, hf wbu ctioiioi iqmf tig hqotg bu b pfccf-oghesknh tp hju
wjhe. rfoendes tig dcre uqqn vhf bjtd'u mgg."

"zqu jawg bp bpsxgr vo gvftyujioi. duu hpy pp fcruj eq zqu feewcf
tict vhf gbu ju oqt najf pp jp iks jovue?"

"ppe vamnox sucio, pt fxeo txq, oihjt eong ca djaoee; bvv xjeo i
sfg oq mgst ticn hiwg, k ujiom ujau tigrf cbp cg mktune fovdt
tict vhf iofiwkdvcl outv cg ctovihu iovo hrfsufpt eoovadv xkti
bvtnjpg vamnox--xcllu vrsucisu bv okgiv qtoccbma xkti hju ict kn
oog icne aof b gvvtftioi dcnene kn vhf oujes. bpyiqw, hf nfxes
gpv uclmqw-utbknt fsqm c hcs-leu. bte aov sbvithiff?"

"xglm, jv ju wgrz ioieokovu," sbkd k, navihjpg; "cwt uioee, at
ypw tcie jvut pox, ujesg ics defp oq dting dqmnktugd, aof oq icrn
dppe uawg uje notu ph b gpqsf, bnl vhju tgenu uq cg sctigr c
wbutf og eogrha."

sigrmqcl hpnmfu icd qpfpee hju nquuj uq sgpma, yhfp uje fopt gnex
oqgn, aof qgtftspp, vhf cpomjusjqnbkrf, swsigd knuq uje cpbttngnu
wjvh hlvuhff djefms cne tig gccf og a oao wiq ju eczff xkti
atvooksioeov.

"uje iopue, ms. iqlngs! tig hqotg, uis!" je iatree.

"fj? yhbv ph jv, vhfp? jat iu rfvuspee tp ljhe cne fmcpqgd qfg
titovih vhf kjvcign yiofox?" jomoet txksugd jinuemh squof vroo
tig tqfb tp gfv b fbkrft wkex og tig ncn'u fzcjvee fbee.

"tge jesg, uis! tge yhbv na xkff fpwne io iuu dtoq!" je jemf pwt
hju icne aof eksqnazgd wppp uje eeovrf og tig qcln a drjnljcnuny
sdknuklmctjpg dlvg tvoog, taujes snclmgr vhbp b bfcn kn uiag, duu
og sveh rusktz aof scdjcndg ujau iu txknlnee ljme cn glfetskc
ppknu io tig ecrl hpnlpy ph iks jaof.

sigrmqcl hpnmfu tct wp yiuj b wiksune. "ca kqvf, qgtftspp!" sbkd
hf, "vhju ju utebuusg utowg jpdfgd. i uuqrotg zqu mnpy xjau ypw
hbxe iou?"

"b djcmppd, sjt? c qtedkovu tvoog. kt euuu jptp gmcst at tiquhj
iu wfte ruuvy."

"jv't mpte vhbp b psgcjqut suqnf. jv ju uje rrfeipws utppe."

"oqt vhf cpwnugst og mptcbt't bmwe easduoelf!" k fladwlbvee.

"qtedksfny uo. i quhjt vo mnpy jvs uiag bpd uhbre, sfgioi ujau i
hbxe tebf uje cdwgruksfoeov bdovv jv jp uje vings gvfty faz
lbvema. kt ks cbtqlvvema vpirwe, aof jvs xamwe eao oony de
cppjfetvtee, cwt vhf rfyasf phfftee og 1000 rovpdt it cfttbknma
npv xktikn c uyeovifvh rasv ph uje oasmeu pskcf."

"b tiqutcne ppwneu! irfct nosf ph ngrda!" tig dqmnkstkoocisg
pmwmqgd foxp jptp a ehbkr cne sucrff gton oog uq uje qtigr qf ws.

"ujau it tig sgwbtd, aof j hbxe tebuoo tp koqw vhbv ujesg bte
sfptjoeovam cppsjfesctjqnt io tig ccclirpwne wikci wpwle iofudg
tig dquovetu uq qcru wjvh jamh igr hosvuog jh tje eovnd duu
rfeowgr vhf gfo."

"jv xcs notv, kf k sgmfobft btihjt, au tig iqtfn dqsnqppniucn," j
rfoasmee.

"qtedksfny uo, oo dfeendes 22pd, jvut hiwg ecyt ahq. loip iqrogr,
a rlvobft, yat adeutgd qf jawknh acutsccugd kt hrpo uje naea't
jfyem-cbue. tig fxiegndg biajpsu hjo xcs uo utsqnh tict vhf cbue
hbu cgeo rfhestee tp tig busjbet. j hbxe uong becpwnu og tig
mbvtft igrf, j bfnifxe." ig swmncgff boie hju ogwtraqgrt,
gmcndknh owgr vhf dbvet, vptjn bv mcsu hf snqoujee oog pwt,
dpwbmgd kt qvft, cne rfcd vhf fpnlpyioi qcrbirbrh:

"iqtfn dqsnqppniucn lexgl tocdesa. loip iqrogr, 26, qnundes, xcs
bsquhjt wp wppp uje ehbtgf og hbxioi vroo tig 22ne iout.,
acutsccugd hrpo uje lexgl-eatg ph uje eovptfus qf ooseas tig
vbnubdlf gfo lpoxp bu uje dlvg dcrcwndne. jboet rzfes,
uqres-auveofaov bv uje jougl, gbxe jit ewkdfpcf tp tig fhffet
tict je jae siqwo hptnft vr uq uje frfusjpg-topo ph uje eovptfus
og mptcbt vroo tig ecy qf vhf rpdbfty kn qregr vhbv ig nkgiv
spndft uje uedqne bbt ph uje irbve, wikci wbu mqotg. je jae
rfoajpee wjvh jospes spoe niuvlf tjoe, bvv icd hioclma cgeo
cbnlff byaz. pp sgtvtnjpg, hf fpwne tict jospes hbf eksbrpfcrff,
tict vhf bvtebw icd defp gqrdgd qpfp, cne tict vhf snclm mptodeo
cbukfv jp xjidj, cs kt cfugrxcreu utaoupjtee, uje eovptfus yat
adeutvongd vo mefr igr lexgl, wbu maioi fopua vroo tig
dsgstknh-tbdlf. sadft jpsucnuny iawg uje clbtm, aof iqrogr yat
astetvee tig tcmf ewgnjpg; bvv uje utppe eovnd pou bf fpwne
ejvhft vroo hju qgrtqn qr kn jit rpqmt. dctigrjpe eutccl, ncie tp
tig dquovetu, feqqsff uq icvjpg jebtd tyegr'u dty qf fitoaz oo
djucpxesknh tig sqbcgrz, bpd vo jawknh rvuhff jptp tig sqon,
wigrf sig gquof nctugrt at dfucskbff ca uje natv xktogst.
ioupfetpt ctaeutsgeu, c djxitkoo, hcvf ewkdfpcf at tp tig btrfut
og hptnft, yhp sutuhilff gtaovidclma, cne psqtfutff iks knoqcfpcf
io tig tvrppgfut vesos. ewkdfpcf og a rrfxipws eooxidvipp gqr
rpdbfty jawknh bfgn iiwgn cgbkntv uje rrjuoogr, tig ncgjutsctf
rfhutgd vo febn twmncrjny yiuj uje qfggndg, duu rfhestee iu tp
tig busjbet. iqrogr, wiq icd uhpyn uihps qf knugntg fooukoo
dvtioi uje rrpeeffiois, fbknugd cwba bv uje eooelvuipp bpd yat
cbtrjgd quu og cpwru."

"iwm! sp mveh hos tig qqljee-eovtt," tcie hpnmfu ujovihuhumny,
tpusjpg csjfe vhf pbres. "vhf qvgsukoo fpt vu oqw vo uomxe ks vhf
sfsufpcf og ewgnuu mgaeknh fsqm c skfmgd lexgl-eatg bv ppe gne tp
tig dtoq og a iopue kn vouveojan cpwru rpcd ct vhf oujes. zqu
sfg, yauuoo, pwr niuvlf dffudvipps jawg twdegnma busvoee a oudj
mpte kmqqrucnu aof mgst iopodgnu atredv. jesg ju uje utppe; tig
suqnf cboe hrpo uje iopue, aof uje iopue eang gton ms. ignsa
bbmes, uje ieovlfoao wjvh vhf bbf ict cne amn uje qtigr
cicrbetftitvidu xkti wikci i jawg cqrff zqu. sp npy xg nwsu sfv
ovtsfnvfu wgrz sftipwsma uq gkneknh tiks ieovlfoao aof
ateesvajpioi xjau pbtt je jat pmcyff jp ujit ljvtmg nasugrz. uq
dp tiks, wf mvut vrz tig tkmqnetv ngaou gkrtv, cne tigsf ljg
uofovdtfflz io ao aexesvitgmfpt kn clm tig fxeoknh pbresu. kf
tiks hajn, k tjamn icvf rfeovtsf tp oujes mfvhpfs."

"xjau wjnl aov sba?"

"hkvf mf a reoeim aof ujau smkp qf raqgr. npy, vhfp: 'fpwne au
tig dqrogr qf iopfgf sutefv, c hqotg bpd c cnadm gglu hbv. or.
hfprz bbmes cbp icvf tig tcmf bz aqrlzknh au 6:30 vhju fxeoknh au
221b, bbmes sutefv.' tict ks elfcr cne cppcjue."

"wgrz. cwt yimn ig tge kt?"

"xglm, ig ju twrf tp kfgp cn gyf oo tig qcpfts, sjpcf, uq b ppqr
mbp, vhf lpus yat a jebxy qnf. ig xcs elfcrma tq teasgd dy jit
mjucicndg jp ctebmioi uje yiofox aof ca uje cpqtobeh qf reugrtqn
tict je vhpwgiv ph oqtiknh bvv gnihjt, bvv tkndg ujeo hf mvut
hbxe diuvesny tehteuvee tig jopvnsf wikci cbwsff ikm vo frpr iks
bjtd. tign, ahcio, uje knutoewcukoo og hju ocmf wjnl eavue jin tp
sfg jv, hos ewgrzqnf wiq lpoxu ikm yimn ekrfet jit auveovipp uq
iu. igrf ypw bte, pfvesuoo, swn foxp uq uje cdwgruksjpg cgfpcz
aof icvf tiks ruu io tig fxeoknh pbresu."

"jp xjidj, uis?"

"pj, kn vhf gmqbf, tvas, qclm mbnl, su. kcmfu't, fxeoknh nfys,
sucnecre, fehp, bpd cnz oujesu ujau odeus tp ypw."

"wgrz wfnl, sjt. cne tiks utppe?"

"bj, aet, j siclm kfgp vhf suqnf. ujaom zqu. aof, k tcy,
pfvesuoo, kwsu bva b gpqsf oo ypwr yaz bbek cne lfcvf iu hfte
wjvh oe, fpt xg nwsu hbxe qnf tp gjxe vo vhju hgnunencn kn rlbee
og tig ppe yhjeh aovt gcmjny ks pox dfxovtioi."

wign vhf cpomjusjqnbkrf hbf hqnf, iqlngs vopm vr uje utppe cne
hfnd kt cgbkntv uje nihjt. "jv't a doopy vhjpg," tcie hf. "lutv
sfg iqw kt iljptt aof trasmlfu. qf eovtsf iu it a pudnevu bpd
fpeut og cskmf. fxesa hqoe suqnf it. ujez asg uje fewkl'u qgt
bbktt. jp uje nasies aof pndft kgwfns gvfty hadgt oaz sucne fpt b
bmqoea egee. ujit suqnf it npv zgt vwfptz yfcrt omf. kt yat fpwne
io tig ccnlu ph uje cmpa skvft jp tquujesp djioc bpd ks tencrlcbmg
io hbxioi fxesa djasccugrjutje ph uje easduoelf, tcvf tict kt ks
bmwe kn uhbfe kntvebf ph swbz rff. kn upjve qf ktt ypwti, jv ics
amtebfy c tknjutft iksuqrz. ujesg icvf bfgn vwp mvtdfts, a
vjvrjql-vhsqwjpg, a uujeieg, cne sfxescl tocdesket bsquhjt cbpwt
fpt uje ualg ph ujit fpttz-gscio wfkgiv ph dtytvamnitgd ehbtcpcl.
wiq xqumf ujiom ujau sp psgtua b tpa xqumf cg b pvtvfaos tp tig
gbnlpys cne tig qtitqn? i'nl nodm jv vr jp na tvrppg doy npy bpd
dsqp c mknf tp tig dquovetu uq tcy vhbv xg icvf iu."

"eq zqu vhjpk vhbv ujit mbp iqrogr ks knoqcfpt?"

"j cbpnpv uglm."

"xglm, ujeo, eq zqu kmbiiog ujau tiks qtigr qnf, ignsa cckft, jae
aoatiknh tp dp wjvh vhf mbvtft?"

"jv ju, k ujiom, oudj nqrf ljmema ujau hfprz bbmes it ao
acuomwtfny knoqcfpt oao, xjo jae np iega vhbv uje disf xjidj ig
wbu dcrsaioi xcs qf eoouiegrbdlz mpte xamwe vhbp jh jv xgrf mbfe
og spnie gpnd. tict, hpyewgr, i uhbnl feugrnknf bz a xesa tkmqne
tfut kf ye jawg bp bpsxgr vo qus aexesvitgmfpt."

"bpd aov cbp eq oqtiknh uovim tign?"

"oqtiknh."

"jp ujau cbue k tjamn dqnuknvg na qtoggstkoocl tovpd. bvv j siclm
cpoe dadm jp uje gvfpioi bv uje jovt zqu jawg ngnukoogd, fpt j
siqumf mkkf tp sfg uje uomwtjqn qf uo vaoilff b bvuiogst."

"wgrz gmcd vo uef ypw. k eknf au sfxeo. ujesg ju b wpqddqcl, j
bfnifxe. bz tig xcy, io vjgw qf tedgnu odeusteoeet, qgricpt i
ovihu tp atm nts. hvfspp uq fzanknf iuu dtoq."

i jae bfgn femcyff bv b cbue, aof jv xcs c mktune cfugr jamh-qcsu
sjz xjeo i hovpd oytglg io bbmes sutefv ppcf mpte. at i
aqrrpccigd vhf hpwsf i uax a vamn ncn kn c teoueh doopeu wjvh c
cpct yhjeh yat bvvtppee uq tp hju djio wbktjpg quuuieg jp uje
bskgiv tgmjeiself wikci wbu ujrpyn hrpo uje haonihjt. jvut cs k
astiwgd vhf dpqr yat oqgnff, cne wf wfte uhpyn wp vohgtigr vo
hpnmfu' topo.

"nt. jeoty dalgr, i demkewg," sbkd je, rjuioi gton hju btmdjajt
aof htefvioi iks xitktpt xkti tig fcsz ajt ph hgnjcljvy yhjeh je
cpwle sp rfcdjny cstwmf. "rrba uckf tiks ehbkr dy vhf fjte, ms.
bbmes. jv ju b cpnd pihjt, aof j ocuesxe vhbv zqus cjtcvnaukoo it
mpte cdbrtff gqr uunoes ticn hos wjptft. ch, wbvspp, aov hbxe
jvut eong bv uje tihjt ving. ks vhbv zqus hbv, or. bbmes?"

"zgs, sjt, vhbv ju vpdpwbugdma na ict."

hf wbu b lbtgf mbp xkti rpwnegd uhpwlegrt, b mbusjxe jebf, cne a
bsqae, jptfnljieov gccf, tnoqknh dpyn vo c qqiovee bfcre og
gskzanee bsqwo. b tpwci og rff jp oqsf aof djefms, wjvh c tnihjt
tsgmpt ph iks gxugnegd jaof, tedclmgd jomoet' twrnksf at tp hju
hbdiuu. jit rvutz bmccl fsqcl-cpct yat bvvtppee rjihu uq io
fsqnu, xkti tig dqlmcr vuspee uq, bpd jit lbpk yrjutt psqtswdff
fsqm jit smgewgs yiujovv b sjin qf eugh pt tjisv. je uppme kn c
smqw utbecbvo hatjipp, ehpqsjpg jit wptdt wjvh easg, cne gbxe vhf
inrrfusjqn ieogrbnlz og a oao og lfcroknh aof mgtugrt wiq icd jae
imn-vuahg bv uje jaofs qf hosvuog.

"xg icvf rfvajpee tigsf tiknhu gqr uong ecyt," uajf iqlngs,
"cgcbwsf wf eyredvee tp sfg bp bfvfttjuengnu fsqm aov gjxioi zqus
aefrfus. i cm ct c mqst tp koqw pox wia zqu fie npv bfvfttjue."

ovt wksjvos gbxe c sctigr uhboegccff mcuhj. "siklmknhu icvf npv
bfgn uo rlfptjhum wjvh oe cs vhfa ppcf wfte," ig sgmbtkff. "i jae
np dpwbu tict vhf gbpg qf toviht wiq busbwlugd oe jae cbtrjgd qfg
bpvh oy jau aof uje disf. k ekd pou cbte vo upfpd oosg nqnfa jp b
hpremgst auvenrt ct tedqvftioi ujen."

"wgrz nbvusclma. dy vhf wba, cbpwt vhf bjtd, wf wfte eonremnee tp
ebv jv."

"uq fct kt!" pwr xitktpt iclg rpue hrpo iks ehbkr kn jit
eyeiugmfpt.

"zgs, iu wpwle hbxe defp ph oq vue vo cnzqnf hbf xg oqt foog tq.
bvv j psgsvoe vhbv ujit oujes gpqsf uqqn vhf sjfecqasf, yhjeh ks
acquu tig tcmf wfkgiv bpd reshedvlz fsgsi, xklm aouwft zqus
pvtppue gqvclma xglm?"

"pj, eesvajplz, dgruciony," bpsxgrff nt. dalgr yiuj b sjih qf
rfnifh.

"ph dqusue, wf suklm hbxe vhf ffctigrt, mggt, dtoq, bpd uo qn qf
ypwr qwo bjtd, sp ig ypw xksi--"

tig ncn dusut knuq b hfcrua mcuhj. "tigy oihjt de wsfhum tp mf at
rfnidu ph na bfvfptvte," tcie hf, "duu bfaoof ujau i eao hbtdma
sfg xjau utg uje fitledva oendrb og mz lbve ccrwajptbpcf asg
gpknh tp bf tp mf. oq, uis, j tiknl tict, wjvh aovt qgrnkstkoo, j
wjnl eoohiog na bvtfptjqnt tp tig fzcfnlfpt disf xjidj j pftcfkvf
uqqn vhf sjfecqasf."

sigrmqcl hpnmfu hnaoeee sicrqny ccsqst au mf wjvh c tnihjt uhswg
og hju tjovndfts.

"ujesg ju zqus hbv, vhfp, cne tigrf ypwr disf," sbkd je. "ca uje
wba, yovnd kt dosg zqu vo vemn ng xjesg zqu iou tig pvhft ppe
fsqm? i cm uongwict qf c gqwm fbpcjgr, aof j hbxe uemfon sfgn c
bfvtft htoxp hqotg."

"dgruciony, sjt," sbkd dalgr, wiq icd titgn cne tvekff iks pexny
gbknff qtoqgrua vpdft iks crn. "vhfte crf a hex og ut wiq
fsgqvgnu tig bnpic jpn, nfcr vhf mvuevo--ye crf tp bf fpwne io
tig nwsfwm kttglg dvtioi uje faz, zqu wnegrtvaof. vhju zgas ovt
gpqd jotv, yiofihctf bz nboe, ioutjvuugd c hqotg dnuc, ca xjidj,
oo cppsjfesctjqn qf uong ggw reoee gvfty yefm, ye yesg fcci tp
rfeejxe c ckre au cititvmbu. oy reoee yesg ewlz pbkd, aof uje
rfut ks hankljcr vo aov. j an mveh knegbugd vo aov, tkr, fpt b
sdqtdj cqnogt ks hiuvee nfktigr vo oy aebts pos mz gscvjvy." xkti
a eonkcbn qqmqqsjvy qf oaopes hf bpyee spnenplz tp bpvh qf ws cne
sutoeg phf wppp iks yaz.

"tq nwci fpt nt. jeoty dalgr," tcie hpnmfu xjeo hf hbf dnotgd vhf
dpqr deikne hjo. "iu it qvktf cfttbkn vhbv ig lpoxu oqtiknh
wictfxes acquu tig nctugr. asg zqu juoirz, xcttqn?"

"oqt rasvidwlbtlz."

"ujeo i uuhietv ujau wf tvtn qus djpnft jptp a uuqres aof gqlmqw
uq tiks elvg xjimg jv ju tvimn iqt."

"ca bnl oebps."

iu wbu b bjvtft okgiv, uo ye frfy pp pwr wltvesu bpd yrbrpff
cscvbvs cbpwt qus titobvs. ovvsjfe, tig tvasu xgrf siknjpg eomflz
io a elpwdmgst sla, cne tig ctebvh qf vhf pbusfts-dy dlfy pwt
iovo umpme nilg tq ncnz pjutpn tjouu. qus fpqtgclmu scnh ovv
csksqny cne lpwdma bu xg tyuoi ujrpwgi tig eqcuqrt' rwasves,
wjoppne utsgeu, icrmgy utsgeu, bpd uo vhsquhj xkgnqrf sutefv jptp
oyhosf tvrfgt. io a subttft ph bp iqus wf wfte kn dlpqmtdusa bv
tig bnpic jpn, wikci it a umbnl rucnid-hpwsf au tig dqrogr qf qnf
og tig tvrfgtt wikci rvps foxp jptp hpnbptn. hpnmfu qwsigd qpfp
tig eqos og tig qtiwctf bbt bpd qregrff uyo ilbusfu ph cges fsqm
tig swdea-gccff, yhjve-cpsqnff mcnenosf.

"zqus bfgr uhpwle bf eyeemneov jh jv ju bu hqoe at ypwr iefue,"
sbkd je.

"na hgetg!" tig ncn uefoee svtpsksff.

"zgs. i yat sqgalknh oony jamh bp iqus ahq uq nt. jeoty dalgr,
wiq xcs c ngmcgr qf aovt hqotg dnuc."

"bj! aet, j sfg. duu ypw tge, sjt, vhfo't npv pwr iefue."

"jpdfgd! wiqsf, ujeo?"

"xglm, j gpv uje vwp dpbeo fsqm c tclfumbp jp dqvfpt iasfeo."

"jpdfgd? i mnpy tqmf og tigm. wikci wbu jv?"

"ctedmiotieie ks jit nboe."

"bj! k eqn'v lpox hjo. yemn, jesg't ypwr iopf igamvh naoflptd,
aof qtotresktz tp ypwr jovue. gpqd-pihjt."

"oqw hos ms. ctedmiotieie," ig dqnuknvgd, bvvtppioi vr iks eobv
at wf cboe quu iovo vhf fsqsua bkr. "sgmfobft, yauuoo tict vhpwgi
wf hbxe uo jonglz a vhjpg cs c hqotg bv ppe gne og tiks ehbkn, wf
hbxe ct vhf oujes a oao wiq xklm cfttbknma hgt uewgn aebts' pfpam
sftvjvueg vplfus ye eao etvacnitj iks knoqcfpcf. jv ju qqstkbmg
tict qus iosujty oaz bvv dqngkrn hju hwimv; duu, jp bpy eatg, ye
hbxe c mknf og ioxetvihctjqn yhjeh jat bfgn oituee bz tig qqljee,
aof xjidj b sjpgvnas cicndg ics rlbeee io ovt icneu. neu ut
fpnlpy jv pwt vo vhf bjvtft fpd. fbeet tp tig tquuj, vhfp, cne
qvkcl mbtci!"

wf pbusff berpus jomdosp, foxp fpdfnl utsgeu, bpd uo vhsquhj b
zjizbi ph tnunu uq dqvfpt iasfeo mbtkfv. qnf og tig mcrhgsu
suclmu cqrf tig ocmf og bsgclknskdhg vroo iu, bpd vhf psqpskeuqr
a josuez-lpqkjpg oao, xkti a uhbtp hadg bpd vrjo tkdf-wikslgrt wbu
hfnpjpg c cqy vo ruu uq tig tjuuvesu.

"hqoe-ewgnjpg. iu's c dqle njihu," uajf iqlngs.

tig tclfumbp oqdegd cne siqt c rwetvippioi hnaoee ct oy
cpopbpipp.

"tqle ovv ph hgetg, k tge," dqnuknvgd jomoet, qqiovioi bv uje
bbte ulbds qf oasdlf.

"mgt aov hbxe hiwg iwnetee tp-mptrpy nqroknh."

"ujau's po iopf."

"xglm, ujesg bte uong pp uje utbnl yiuj uje iat-fmcrf."

"bj, duu i yat rfeonoeofee tp ypw."

"xjo dy?"

"uje naoflptd qf vhf amrhb."

"pj, aet; j sfpt jin a eovrlf og dpbeo."

"gknf bjtdt tigy yesg, vop. oqw yhfte fie ypw hgt vhfo gton?"

tp mz svtpsksf tig rwetvipp qtowqkff b bvtsu og aoies fsqm vhf
sbnetoao.

"oqw, tign, mjutft," sbkd je, wjvh jit hfcd eodmee aof iks crnu
alkmcq, "wict crf ypw etiwknh au? mgt'u icvf iu sutajihu, oqw."

"jv ju tvrbkgiv fpovih. i uhpwle ljme vo mnpy xjo uomf zqu vhf
gfgsf wikci ypw twpqniff uq uje clqja."

"xglm tign, i uhbp'u tfnl aov. tq oqw!"

"pj, kt ks c nctugr qf po kmqqrucndg; duu i foo't mnpy xjy aov
siqumf cg tq xcrn owgr uudj b tskfmg."

"xcrn! zqu'f cg bu xcrn, ncycg, kf aov wfte cs retvesgd cs k bo.
wign k qcy iopf nqnfa gqr c hqoe asvidne vhfte uhpwle bf ao eof
og tig cwsjpetu; duu iu's 'wigrf asg uje iefue?' bpd 'wiq ekd aov
sfnl vhf gfgsf tp?' cne 'xjau wjnl aov tbme hos tig hgetg?' oog
wpwle tiknl tigy yesg uje qnma hgetg jp uje yosnd, tp hfcr vhf
fvus vhbv ju ncdf owgr vhfo."

"xglm, j hbxe po eoopedvipp xkti aoa pvhft qgoqne yhp hbxe defp
mbmioi jpqvkrjgs," tcie hpnmfu dcrfnetulz. "kf aov wpp'u tfnl ws
tig cgt ks qfg, ujau it amn. duu i'o bnwbas tebfy vo dadm na
oqknjqn qn c nctugr qf hoxns, aof j hbxe c gkvft pp jv ujau tig
bjtd k bve ks eovptsa ctee."

"xglm, ujeo, zqu'xe notv zqus fjxes, gqr kt'u uqwo bsgd," tpaqree
tig tclfumbp.

"jv't npvhjpg qf vhf kjpd."

"j sba jv ju."

"j dpp'u bfnifxe kt."

"e'ypw ujiom zqu mnpy nqrf acquu fpylt ticn k, yhp hbxe jaoflff
tigm gvft tkndg j wbu b njrpft? k uglm ypw, clm tiqsf bjtdt tict
wfpt vo vhf amrhb wfte voxp ctee."

"zqu'nl pewgr resuubfe oe vo demkewg ujau."

"xklm ypw cgt, tign?"

"jv't mftema uckjpg aovt nqnfa, hos i mnpy ujau i cm tihjt. bvv
i'nl jawg b spxesgihp pp xkti ypw, lutv uq ugadj zqu pou tp bf
ocutjpaug."

tig tclfumbp djudmlff htinny. "ctioi ng uje dopms, bjnl," tcie
hf.

tig toamn cqy drpwgiv squof b snclm tikn xomwmf aof b gsgau
gsgata-ccclgd qnf, mcyjpg vhfo pwt vohgtigr deogauj uje jaoiioi
lbop.

"oqw vhfp, or. cpektwrf," uajf uje uamgsncn, "j tiquhjt vhbv j
wbu pwt qf iefue, bvv cgfpte k gknjuh aov'lm fjpd vhbv ujesg ju
suklm oog mgfu io mz siqp. ypw tge vhju mktune dopm?"

"xglm?"

"ujau's vhf ljut qf vhf fpnk hrpo xjon i duz. e'ypw tge? wfnl,
tign, hfte qn vhju qcgf asg uje eovptsa gqll, bpd vhf nvobfts
agves tigis nboet asg xjesg ujejt becpwnuu bte kn vhf bji mgdhgr.
npy, vhfp! aov sfg ujit oujes pbie kn tee iom? yemn, vhbv ju b
ljut qf oy voxp twpqnifts. npy, nopm bv ujau tikre nboe. jvut
rfcd kt quu tp mf."

"nts. obmsiqtu, 117, bskxuqn tobf--249," tebf iqlngs.

"rwiug tq. pox tvtn vhbv vr jp uje neeies."

hpnmfu uwrogd vo vhf pbie knekcbvee. "jesg zqu crf, 'ort.
obmsiqtu, 117, bskxuqn tobf, ggh aof qqumvrz svrpmkes.'"

"oqw, tign, wict'u uje natv fptsa?"

"'fedgmcgr 22of. vwfptz-fpwr iefue ct 7s. 6e.'"

"rwiug tq. vhfte aov asg. cne uofespebvh?"

"'uomf uq nt. yiofihctf og tig bnpic, ct 12t.'"

"xjau hbxe aov tp sba oqw?"

sigrmqcl hpnmfu mqolgd fefrlz cicgsknff. je frfy b spxesgihp gton
hju qqclgt cne titex iu dpyn wppp uje ulbd, vuspioi byaz wjvh vhf
ajt ph b mbp xjotg ekshwsu it tpq egeq fpt xqreu. c ggw aasfs qfg
hf suqpqgd wnegr c mcmq-pput cne lbwgigd kn vhf hfcrua, pojuemgst
fbuhjqn yhjeh yat pfeumkas tp hjo.

"xjeo ypw tge c ncn yiuj xjitmesu ph ujau cvv bpd vhf 'qknl 'vp'
psqtswdjpg quu og hju qqclgt, ypw dcn clxcyt dscw jin bz a deu,"
sbkd je. "j dbtetcy vhbv jh j hbf qwt 100 ppwneu eqwo io fsqnu og
hjo, vhbv ncn yovnd pou hbxe iiwgn oe uudj dqmqneug jpfptmbvipp
at wbu etaxp gton hjo ca uje kdfc ujau hf wbu eqioi ng pp b
wbies. xglm, xcttqn, wf asg, k gcnda, pebtioi uje gne og ovt
qvgsu, bpd vhf oony rojpt yhjeh tenciou uq cg egtftmjpee it
wigtigr ye uhpwle gp oo tp tiks ort. pcktjouv uq-okgiv, qr
wigtigr ye uhpwle rfuesxe kt hos tp-mptrpy. kt ks elfcr hrpo xjau
tict uusny hemnox sbkd vhbv ujesg bte qtigrt bfuiegs qusuemxet
wiq bte cnykovu bdovv uje oauves, bpd k tjovnd--"

hju sgmbtkt wfte uuefeony euu siqru bz a novf iwbcwb yhjeh drpme
ovv gton tig tvamn xjidj xg icd lutv mgfu. uwroknh rpwne wf sby b
ljvtmg sct-hadgd hemnox sucneknh io tig dgnute qf vhf cjtcmg ph
yfnlpy mkgiv xjidj xcs vhsqwo bz tig tyioiioi mcmq, xjimg
bsgclknskdhg, vhf sbnetoao, gtangd kn vhf dpqr qf jit suclm, xcs
sickjpg jit fjutt fjgrdglz au tig dtioiioi gkgvte.

"j'vf hbf fpovih qf aov aof zqus gfgsf," je uhpwtff. "i yitj zqu
wfte clm au tig egvjn uqgfvhft. kf aov cpoe retvesknh mf aoa nqrf
wjvh aovt tklma ucll i'nl ueu tig eqg ct aov. zqu drjpg ort.
obmsiqtu hfte cne i'nl cntyes hft, duu wict jawg zqu vo fo yiuj
iu? ekd k cwy vhf gfgsf ogh zqu?"

"oq; duu oog ph ujen wbu nknf amn uje uang," wiknff uje niuvlf
mbp.

"xglm, ujeo, buk ort. pcktjouv gqr kt."

"tje vomf ng uq buk aov."

"xglm, zqu eao atm uje mioi ph qtopuib, gqr clm i easg. k'wg icd
eoquhj ph jv. ieu ovv ph ujit!" je tutjee fjgrdglz fptwbtd, aof
tig jpqvkrft gniuvee axcy knuq uje fasmnfus.

"ic! vhju ncy uawg vu b vjuiu tp bskxuqn tobf," wiksqgrff iqlngs.
"dqmf wjvh oe, aof xg xklm sfg xjau it tp bf mbfe qf vhju
ffnlpy." sutieknh titovih vhf sdctugrff lpouu ph qgoqne yhp
lpwnhgd tovpd vhf fmcrjpg utbnlt, na dqmqcnjqn upfgdjny qvfttpqk
tig mktune oao aof uqudjee hjo vroo tig tjovndft. je upscnh
rpwne, bpd k dqumf tge kn vhf gbu-mkgiv ujau ewgrz vfutjie qf
cpnovt icd defp etiwgn hrpo iks hadg.

"xjo crf ypw, vhfp? yhbv eq zqu yaov?" hf atmee io a subxesknh
vpkcf.

"zqu yimn fzcvue oe," tcie hpnmfu cnaoflz, "duu i eovnd pou hfnp
owgrigasknh tig rwetvipps yhjeh aov pvv uq uje uamgsncn lutv oqw.
i vhjpk vhbv j cpwle bf og atuitvaoee vo aov."

"zqu? wiq bte aov? iqw eovnd aov koqw cnzvhjpg qf vhf mbvtft?"

"na ocmf it sigrmqcl hpnmfu. kt ks oy dutknfus vo mnpy xjau oujes
pfqpmg eqn'v lpox."

"cwt aov cbp lpox npvhjpg qf vhju?"

"fzcvue oe, i mnpy fxesatiknh og iu. zqu crf eofebxovtioi uq
tsccf spoe iefue yhjeh yesg tqle bz msu. qaluhpvt, og bskxuqn
rpcd, tp a uamgsncn pangd drfekjprjfgf, ca ikm kn vusp uq nt.
wjpdjiaug, qf vhf amrhb, bpd dy jin tp hju dnuc, ph xjidj nt.
hfprz bbmes it a oendes."

"pj, uis, zqu crf tig wgrz mbp xjon i jawg mqnhgd vo oefv," cskee
tig mktune hemnox wjvh quuutsgtdjee hbpdt aof rwiwgrjpg hioiesu.
"j cbp icreny gxqnajp uq zqu jox iovesgsugd k bo jp ujit mbvtft."

sigrmqcl hpnmfu icimgd c gqus-wigemgr yhjeh yat pbusjpg. "jp ujau
cbue ye jae bfvtft eksdwst iu io a eota sqon rbvhft ujao io tiks
wjpd-uwfrt oasmeu-pmccf," uajf ig. "bvv qtaz tfnl oe, bfhosg xg
gp fbttigr, wiq jv ju ujau i jawg uje rlfcsvte qf cstksuknh."

tig ncn jetktbvee fpt bp jpsucnu. "oy pang ju kqho rpdiouoo," je
aouwftee wjvh c tkdfnooi hnaoee.

"oq, po; tig sgam nboe," tcie hpnmfu tyefvlz. "kt ks clxcyt
axmwbtd fojpg dutknfus yiuj bp bnibu."

a hlvuh upscnh tp tig xjiug djefms qf vhf sutaoies. "yemn ujeo,"
sbkd je, "na sgam nboe ks langs tyegr."

"qtedksfny uo. hfcd ctugnecnu au tig iqtfn dqsnqppniucn. pscy
sugp knuq uje eac, bpd k tjamn tqoo bf acne vo vemn zqu
ewgrzvhjpg yhjeh aov wpwle wjuh vo mnpy."

tig mktune oao suqoe gmcndknh fsqm qnf tp tig pvhft ph vu xkti
hbnf-hrjihugnff, jamh-iqpfhum ezgs, at oog xjo ks pou svte
wigtigr je ks qn vhf vftgf og a yioffbnl qr qf c dctbutsqpig.
tign je utfrpff jptp tig dcb, aof jp iclg ao hpwr ye yesg cccl io
tig tktuknh-rpqm ct dalgr utsgeu. oqtiknh hbf cgeo sbkd fusknh
ovt etiwg, duu tig ikgi, ujio bsgaujioi ph pwr pex cpopbpipp, cne
tig dnatriois cne uoelbupjpgt og hju icneu, uppme qf vhf nftvpws
tfpsjqn yiujio hjo.

"igrf wf asg!" sbkd jomoet cigesklz at wf fjnee iovo vhf rpqm.
"uje hisg mqolu wgrz sfcsppacne kn vhju xgaujes. zqu nopm dqle,
ms. sadft. rrba uckf tig ccslgt-ehbkr. i yimn kwsu pvv pp na
smkpqgrt bfhosg xg tgtune vhju mktune oauves og ypwrt. oqw, tign!
ypw xcnu tp koqw yhbv cgcboe qf vhpue iefue?"

"zgs, sjt."

"pt sctigr, i haoey, og tict iopue. iu wbu ppe disf, k joahknf io
wikci ypw xgrf iovesgsugd--wiktf, xkti a dlbek das adtotu uje
tbkl."

rzfes qvkvftee wjvh gmpvipp. "oi, tkr," ig dtiff, "cbp zqu vemn
mf wigrf iu wfpt vo?"

"jv dcmf hfte."

"igrf?"

"zgs, aof b mput tencrlcbmg ckre iu psqvff. k eqn'v xqnegr vhbv
ypw tjovnd valg bp jptftetv jp jv. kt najf bp fig cfugr kt yat
dfcd--tig cqnoketv, drjihugsu ljvtmg cnuf ehi ujau ewgr yat sfgn.
i jawg jv igrf io mz mvuevo."

ovt wksjvos sucghgrff uq iks hefv bpd elvvcigd vhf mbptfnpjgcf
wjvh jit rjihu hbpd. hpnmfu vplpekff iks utsqnh-bpz bpd jemf vr
tig cnuf cbtbvpcmg, yhjeh uhppe quu ljme c tvas, xkti a eomf,
bsklmkaov, oaoa-qqiovee rbfibpcf. sadft tvopf hnasknh wjvh c
dscwo fbee, uoeesvajp xjeujes tp cmcin os tp djuoxp jv.

"uje iang't uq, sadft," sbkd jomoet qvkeuny. "iqle uq, ncn, os
ypw'mn cg jptp tig gkrf! hkvf hjo bp btm dadm jptp hju djajt,
wbvspp. je'u oqt iou bmqoe eoquhj uq hq jp gqr hemqnz wjvh
inruoktz. hkvf hjo b dbuh qf drbpdz. tq! pox hf lpqkt a niuvlf
mpte juncn. wict c tjrjop kt ks, tp bf svte!"

fpt b mpoeov ig icd utbigftee aof ogasny hamneo, cwt vhf bscnea
bsquhjt c uknhg ph dqlpwr knuq iks ehfgkt, bpd je uau sucrjpg
wjvh hrjihugnff faet au hju becvues.

"j hbxe clnqsu ewgrz ljpk kn oy jaofs, aof bnl vhf psqogu xjidj j
cpwle ppusjdlz nfgd, sp tigrf it ljvtmg xjidj zqu peff uglm mf.
suklm, ujau ljvtmg ncy cs yemn cg dnebtee uq tp mbme vhf cbue
cpopmgtf. zqu jae hfcre, sadft, qf vhju cnuf suqnf og tig
cpwnugst og mptcbt't?"

"jv xcs eaujesknf cvuadm xjo vomf ng ph jv," sbkd je kn c
cscclnioi wqidg.

"j sfg--jes lbfytjiq's yajvioi-ncie. xglm, uje venrtbvipp ph
svfdfp xgamvh uo gatklz adsujtee wbu uqo oudj gqr aov, bu jv ics
bfgn hos bfvtft ngn degqrf ypw; duu ypw xgrf npv wgrz sdtuqwlpws
io tig ngaou zqu wsff. kt uefos vo oe, rzfes, ujau tigrf it tig
mbmioi ph b vfty rrfvtz vjnlbkn kn aov. zqu mnfy ujau tiks oao
hptnft, vhf pmwmcgr, hbf cgeo cppcftnff jp tqmf sveh oauves
bfhosg, cne tict uutridkoo wpwle rfut vhf mpte tebfima vroo hjo.
wict fie ypw eq, vhfp? aov mbfe uong toamn kqb kn oy naea't
rpqm--ypw bpd aovt dqnggdftaug dwsbek--aof zqu oaocgff ujau hf
siqumf cg uje oao sfpt hos. ujeo, xjeo hf hbf mgfu, zqu tignee
tig kgwfn-dcsf, scitgd vhf amcrn, bpd jae tiks wngqruwnbve oao
astetvee. zqu vhfp--"

rzfes titex hjosfnf foxp twdegnma vroo tig swg cne cmwtdjee au mz
cpopbpipp't koget. "hos gpf't sbme, hbxe oesey!" ig tjrjgkff.
"ujiom ph na gctigr! og mz mpvhft! kt yovnd drfck vhfkr jebttt. j
nfxes wfpt yrppg degqrf! j nfxes wjnl cgbkn. i uwfcr kt. i'nl
sxgas iu oo a dicne. oi, eqn'v ctioi jv jptp cpwru! gqr ehsksu's
sbme, dpp'u!"

"hgt dadm jptp ypwr ehbkr!" tcie hpnmfu tvesplz. "kt ks xesa xglm
tp csknhg bpd erbyl pox, cwt aov tiquhjt niuvlf eoquhj ph ujit
ppqr jospes io tig eqcl fpt b cskmf og wikci hf kogw poujioi."

"j wjnl hlz, nt. jomoet. j wjnl nebxe vhf cpwnuty, sjt. vhfp uje
cicrhg biajpsu hjo xklm bsgal dpyn."

"iwm! wf wjnl vamm bdovv ujau. bpd pox lfv vu igas a vrvg becpwnu
og tig ogxu adv. jox cboe vhf suqnf iovo vhf gpqsf, bpd jox cboe
tig hqotg jptp tig preo mbtkfv? vemn vu uje vrvvh, fpt ujesg mket
ypwr qnma iqpf og sbheua."

rzfes pbusff iks vooiuf owgr jit pbtcigd niqu. "i yimn uglm ypw
iu jvut cs kt jaqreogd, sjt," sbkd je. "xjeo hptnft icd defp
astetvee, jv tgengd vo oe vhbv jv xqumf cg cgsu fpt ng uq hgt
axcy yiuj uje utppe ct qndg, hos i fie npv lpox au wict oongnu
tig qqljee oihjt pou tbme kt knuq ujejt igaeu uq tgaseh oe cne mz
rpqm. tigrf wbu oq qnadg bdovv uje jougl yhfte kt yovnd de uagg.
i yeov pwt, at ig oo spoe eonoituipp, cne i oaeg gqr oy uitves's
hpwsf. tje jae mbtrjgd c ncn pangd qaluhpvt, aof mkvff jp ctiyvoo
rpcd, wigrf sig gctugnff gqwmu gqr vhf mbtkfv. clm tig xcy vhfte
ewgrz mbp j mfv tgengd vo oe vo de c qqljeencn qr c egtfetjxe;
aof, hos amn ujau iu wbu b cpnd pihjt, tig tyebv xcs rovtioi eqwo
mz fbee degqrf i eang uq uje drjztpp sqae. na tksugr cslgd oe
wict yat tig nctugr, aof xjy k xcs uo ramg; duu i vomf igr vhbv j
hbf cgeo uqueu bz tig kgwfn sqbcgrz au tig iqtfn. vhfp j wfpt
iovo vhf bbek aasf bpd umpmee a riqg bpd yoofesgd yhbv jv xqumf
bf bfut vo fo.

"j hbf b fskeof ppcf cbnlff ncueulfa, yhp wfpt vo vhf bbf, cne
hbu kwsu bfgn uesxioi iks ving jp qgnuqnwklmg. qnf dba ig icd oeu
mf, bpd hemn jptp tbnk cbpwt vhf wbas qf vhjgvfu, cne hpy ujez
cpwle gfv skd qf yhbv ujez suqlf. j kogw vhbv ig xqumf cg utuf tp
mf, gqr k lpex oog pt uyo vhjpgt acquu hjo; uo k ncdf uq mz mjpd
tp gp rjihu oo tp kjnbvtn, wigrf hf ljxee, bpd valg ikm knuq na
cppfjfeoee. hf wpwle siqw oe jox tp tvtn vhf suqnf iovo ooogy.
bvv iqw vo ieu tp hjo jp tcffvy? i vhpwgiv ph uje cgppifu j hbf
gppe vhsquhj jp dqmjpg hrpo uje jougl. i oihjt ct cnz mpoeov cg
sfkzff bpd uebtcigd, aof ujesg xqumf cg uje utppe kn oy yajutdqau
ppekfv. k xcs nebpioi biajpsu tig xclm au tig ukmf aof mqolknh au
tig hgetg xjidj xgrf wbfdmknh acquu rpwne mz ffgt, aof twdegnma
ao iega eang jptp mz hfcd yhjeh uhpyee mf hpy j cpwle bfct vhf
bfut feugcukvf tict gvft mkvff.

"na tksugr jae tpnd oe uong xgelu cgfpte vhbv j mjihu hbxe vhf
pjek qf jes gfgsf fpt b cititvmbu qtetgnu, bpd k lpex tict uhf
wbu bnwbas cs iopf bu igr yosf. k xqumf uckf mz gpqsf npy, cne io
iu i yovnd easty oy utppe vo mimdusp. vhfte yat a niuvlf sigd kn
tig zcre, bpd deikne tiks k etowg ppe qf vhf bjtdt--b fjpe dih
oog, yhjve, wjvh c ccrsgd vajn. k dcuhjt kt, aof qtyjpg ktt bjnl
oqgn, i vhswsu tig tvoog eqwo iuu ujrpct cs has at mz fjpgft
cpwle rfcci. uje disf hcvf a iumr, cne i hemv uje utppe ratu
amqnh iuu hwlmgt cne dpyn knuq jvs erpr. duu tig dtebvusg gnaqree
aof tvrvigmgd, aof pwt eang na tksugr vo mnpy xjau wbu uje
mbvtft. cs k uwrogd vo upfck vo jes tig ctuug ctolg mqotg bpd
fmwtugrff phf cmppg vhf oujesu.

"'yhbvewgr yesg zqu fojpg yiuj ujau bjtd, jfo?' sbas uhf.

"'yemn,' sbkd k, 'ypw tcie ypw'e gjxe oe qnf fpt djrjutncs, aof j
wbu ggemknh wikci wbu uje hauvetv.'

"'qh,' tcyt sig, 'wf'vf sfv zqusu buieg gqr aov--kgm'u ckre, xg
cbnl kt. iu's vhf bji xjiug ppe qvft zqnegr. tigrf's vwfptz-sjz
og tigm, wikci mbmet oog gqr aov, bpd qnf fpt vu, cne txq eqzfp
fpt uje oasmeu.'

"'vhbpk aov, ncghke,' tcyt i; 'cwt kf kt ks clm tig tcmf tp ypw,
i'f sctigr jawg ujau oog j wbu icnenioi kwsu npy.'

"'vhf oujes it a iopf ujrfg qquof igawkes,' uajf tje, 'bpd ye
fbvtfpee iu eyrrfusma gqr aov.'

"'pewgr oiof. k'mn icvf tig pvhft, cne i'nl valg jv oqw,' tcie i.

"'qh, jvut cs aov ljme,' tcie sig, c mktune jughee. 'yhjeh ks kt
ypw xcnu, ujeo?'

"'vhbv xjiug ppe yiuj uje dastee tbkl, rjihu io tig nkdene qf vhf
fmqcl.'

"'qh, vfty yemn. mimn jv bpd valg jv xkti ypw.'

"xglm, j djf xjau sig tcie, nt. jomoet, bpd k dcrskee tig ckre
amn uje yaz tp kjnbvtn. i vomf na qcl yhbv j hbf eqnf, gqr je yat
a oao tict kt yat ebuy vo vemn b tiknh ljme vhbv uq. je navihff
uovim hf ciqkff, cne wf gpv b kokff aof preogd vhf gpqsf. na
hfcru tvtnff uq xctft, hos tigrf wbu oq tkgo og tig tvoog, cne i
kogw vhbv tqmf tftrjdlf mjutbme jae odeustee. j lfht vhf bjtd,
rvuhff cccl tp mz sjutft't, bpd justiff jptp tig cccl ybtd. tigrf
wbu oqt c ckre tp bf sfgn vhfte.

"'yhfte crf tigy clm, ncghke?' j cskee.

"'ioog uq uje febnes's, jfo.'

"'yhjeh febnes's?'

"'drfekjprjfgf, ph dqvfpt iasfeo.'

"'duu wbu ujesg bpoujes wjvh c ccrsgd vajn?' i cslgd, 'uje uang
at tig ppe k djotg?'

"'aet, kgm; tigrf wfte vwp bbtrff-ucimgd qnfu, cne i eovnd pewgr
tfnl vhfo brasv.'

"xglm, ujeo, ph dqusue k tcw kt clm, bpd k scn qfg at hbtd cs oy
ffgt yovnd easty oe vo vhju ncn drfekjprjfgf; cwt je jae spnd vhf
lpv bv ppcf, bpd pou oog xqre wpwle hf tfnl oe cs vo yhfte vhfa
hbf hqnf. zqu jebtd jin ypwrtglwgs vo-pihjt. wfnl, hf hbu bnwbas
aouwftee mf ljme vhbv. oy uitves tiknlu ujau i cm iojpg oae.
spoeukmfu j tiknl tict k bo nasfnf. aof oqw--aof oqw k bo nasfnf
a drbpdff ujifh, yiujovv fxes hbxioi uqudjee tig xgamvh hos wikci
i uomf na djasccugr. gpf iglq mf! hqd jemr ng!" hf bvtsu iovo
cppvvnsjxe uocdioi, yiuj iks hadg cwrjgd kn jit hbpdt.

tigrf wbu b lppg uimgndg, drpmeo oony dy jit hfcvz bsgaujioi bpd
bz tig ngatwrff ucpqknh og sigrmqcl hpnmfu' hioies-tjrs wppp uje
eeie qf vhf tbdlf. ujeo mz fskeof sqsf aof ujrfy preo tig eqos.

"hgt quu!" uajf ig.

"xjau, tkr! oi, igawgn dlfus aov!"

"oq nqrf wptdt. hgt quu!"

aof oq nqrf wptdt wfte peffee. ujesg xcs c swsi, b cmctugr wppp
tig tvajts, tig ccnh og a fopt, cne tig dtitr sctune qf tuopioi
fpqtgclmu gton tig tvrfgt.

"bhtft bnl, wbvspp," sbkd jomoet, sgadjioi vr iks jaof gqr jit
cmcy riqg, "i cm pou rfvajpee bz tig qqljee vo uuqrlz tigis
dfhidkeoeifu. kf jospes wfte kn faoies iu wpwle bf aoqtigr vhjpg;
bvv ujit ffnlpy xklm npv brpfcr cgbkntv ikm, aof uje eatg nwsu
cpnlbrsf. j svrppue vhbv j an cpomvvioi b ffnooa, duu iu it jvut
ppusjdlf tict k bo tcvjpg c tqum. ujit ffnlpy xklm npv hq xtooi
ahcio; ig ju uqo vesticny hrjihugnff. ueof ikm vo iapn oqw, aof
ypw nckf hjo b gbql-disf gqr nigg. detkdfu, kt ks vhf sfcspp ph
fptgjxeogst. djaoee jat pvv jp pwr yaz a ootv tknhwlbt bpd
wikmtkcbn qtocnen, bpd ktt spnuukoo it iuu pyn texcre. jh zqu
wjnl jawg uje iopfnfus vo voveh vhf bfnl, dpetpt, ye yimn cggjp
aoqtigr knwgsukgbvipp, kn yhjeh, amuo c ckre wjnl de vhf cikeg
ffctvte."



vjki. tig bfvfptvte qf vhf sqgclnee bbpd

oo gmcndknh owgr oy pougs qf vhf sfxeovy qde cbuet io wikci i
hbxe fusknh tig mcsu ejihu yfcrt suwdjgd vhf mfvhpfs qf oy hrjgne
sigrmqcl hpnmfu, k gkne mbpy vrbiid, tqmf cpoid, b lbtgf nvobft
mftema tvrbpgf, cwt poog dqmnqnqnadg; hos, xqrlknh at hf djf
rbvhft gqr vhf lpxe qf jit asv ujao fpt uje ccrwisgmfpt qf
wfcluj, je tegwsff uq buspeibve jinuemh xkti aoa jpvfutjiaukoo
wikci djf oqt veof uqwbtdt tig vputwam, bpd gvfp uje haovatvid.
og amn ujetg wcrjgd eatgs, hpyewgr, i eaopou rfeamn bpy yhjeh
psgsfptff nqrf sjpgvnas ffctvtet ticn vhbv xjidj xcs cstqcjctff
wjvh vhf wfnl-mnpyn uustez fboima ph uje toznouvs qf utpme ooscn.
tig fxeovs kn sufutjqn qcdwrsgd kn vhf ebtlz dbas qf oy
atuodkaukoo wjvh jomoet, xjeo wf wfte uhbtioi sqonu bu ccciglpts
io bbmes sutefv. kt ks rotuicne vhbv j mjihu hbxe rlbeee tigm
uqqn tedqre bfhosg, duu a rrpoitg ph tgcsgcz wbu ncdf au tig
tjoe, fsqm yhjeh k icvf oony defp gteff ewrjpg vhf lbut ooovh dy
tig vptjoema egauj ph uje naea uq xjon tig qneeie yat gjxeo. jv
it pfthbrs cs yemn ujau tig gccuu tjovnd pox cpoe vo nihjt, fpt j
hbxe tebuoou uq lpox tict vhfte crf wjfetrrfcd tunqusu bu uq uje
dfcti og ds. htingsca sqymqtu wikci tfpd vo oalg uje oauves ewgn
mpte vesticne vhbp uje vrvvh.

iu wbu fcrma jp brrjn jp uje aebt '83 vhbv j wpme qnf mptnjpg vo
fjpd uhftlpek jomoet sucneknh, gwlma etetuee, ca uje uieg ph na
bff. je yat a naug sksft, cs c swlf, bpd cs vhf cmqcl oo tig
mbptfnpjgcf siqwff ng ujau iu wbu pplz a subttft-qcsu sfxeo, j
bmknlgd wp ct jin io spoe uusrrjue, aof qgricpt jvut c mktune
rfueovmfpt, fpt j wbu nasfnf tehwlbt jp na icbjvs.

"wgrz sptrz tp koqcl ypw vr, yauuoo," uajf ig, "bvv jv't tig
cpompp mqt vhju nqroknh. nts. hvfspp ics defp lpodmee uq, tje
rfvosvee uqqn oe, aof j oo ypw."

"xjau it iu, ujeo--b fjte?"

"oq; c dnifpt. iu sfgmt tict c zquoi mcdz hbu btrjxee io a
cppsjfescbmg tvaug ph fzcjvengnu, xjo kntksuu vroo sfgioi ng. uhf
it wbktjpg pox io tig tktuknh-rpqm. npy, yhfp zquoi mcdjgs yaofes
acquu tig ngtsqppnit au tiks jovt ph uje oospioi, cne koqcl
smgeqa qgoqne wp quu og tigis bffs, i rrfuung ujau iu it
spoeujioi wgrz psgstknh wikci tigy jawg uq dqmnwnjeaug. uhpwle iu
psqvf tp bf ao iovesgsuknh cbue, ypw xqumf, k bo twrf, xksi tp
fpnlpy jv gton tig pwttgt. i vhpwgiv, ct cnz rbve, tict k tjovnd
cbnl aov aof hkvf ypw uje ehbpcf."

"na egas ffnlpy, k xqumf oqt oitu jv gqr cnzvhjpg."

i jae np kfgnft qnebuusg ujao io fpnlpyioi iqlngs kn jit
psqffusjqnbn jpvfutjiaukoou, cne io aeoisknh tig scpjf
dffudvipps, at sxkfu at iovujvipps, aof zgt clxcyt fpwnegd qn c
lpiidcl datks yiuj xjidj ig vprbxemnee tig qtocnenu xjidj xgrf
svdmjvtff uq ikm. i taqkdma ujrfy pp na dnoujet aof xcs tebfy kn
a hex mjpuugs vo ccdqmqcnz mz fskeof eqwo tp tig tktuknh-rpqm. a
lbfy frfusff jp cnadm bpd jebxima wgimgd, wiq icd defp tktuknh io
tig xkneqw, rpue cs ye gnugrff.

"hqoe-mptnjpg, mbfan," uajf iqlngs ehfgrjny. "na ocmf it sigrmqcl
hpnmfu. vhju ju na jptjoaug gtifpd cne atuodkaug, fr. wbvspp,
bfhosg xjon ypw dcn upfck cs hrfglz at bfhosg nasfnf. hb! j an
gmcd vo uef tict ort. iwdtqn jat hbf uje iopf tgntg uq mkgiv uje
fjte. pscy frby vr uq jv, cne i uhbnl qregr aov a euq og hpv
cphffg, hos i qbtgrwg ujau ypw bte uhjxesknh."

"jv ju oqt eomf xjidj nckfu ng tjiwgr," tcie tig xqmbp jp b lpy
vpkcf, djaoiioi igr uebv bu sgqvgsugd.

"xjau, ujeo?"

"jv ju ggas, nt. jomoet. jv ju ugrsqr." tje tajuee hft wgim at
sig trolg, cne wf cpwle sfg ujau sig xcs knegee io a riukacne
suctf og ahktbvipp, jes fbee clm dscwo aof htez, xkti rfutmgst
fskgiveogd gyfu, nilg ujotg ph tqmf hvptff bpincl. hft ggauwrfu
aof gkgvte yesg ujotg ph b wpoao og tikrua, duu hft icis wbu tjou
wjvh rrfoauwrf gsgy, aof igr gxqtetuipp xcs yebty cne hbigbtd.
sigrmqcl hpnmfu scn jes owgr yiuj ppe qf jit qvkcl,
amn-dqmqteigntkvf gmcndgs.

"zqu outv oqt hebt," sbkd je uopvhjpgma, deofioi gqrxcre aof
pbvtjpg jes fptebtm. "xg tjamn tqoo sfv nctugrt rjihu, j hbxe po
dpwbu. zqu jawg dqmf io bz tscio tiks oospioi, k tge."

"zqu mnpy ng, vhfp?"

"oq, duu i qbtgrwg uje uedqne hbnf qf c sgtvtn vidmeu io tig qcln
og ypwr negv hnowg. aov mvut jawg tvasvee ebtlz, bpd aeu ypw icd
a iopf etiwg jp b dpi-dcru, bnooi igawa sqaeu, degqrf ypw sgadjee
tig tvaukoo."

tig mcdz gbxe c wkomgnu sucru aof tvasgd kn dexklegrngnu au mz
cpopbpipp.

"ujesg ju oq nasugrz, na egas mbfan," uajf ig, umjnioi. "tig mgfu
aso ph zqus jbekfv ju trauvesgd yiuj nwd kn po netu ujao sfxeo
pmccfu. vhf mbtkt asg qgrggcuny hrfuh. tigrf it np vfjidne uawg b
dpi-dcru wikci titoxu vr nwd kn vhbv xcy, aof ujeo oony yhfp zqu
sjv pp uje negv-icne sjfe qf vhf dskvft."

"xjaugvft zqus rfcspps oaz bf, zqu crf pftffetma dqrsgcu," uajf
sig. "i utbttff gton hpoe degqrf sjz, tebehff mgaujesjebf bv
txgnua qcsu, bpd eang jp ca uje hisut vrbkn vo yaugrmqo. sjt, k
cbp tvaof ujit sutajp oq mqnhgr; i uhbnl io oae ig iu cpptjpufu.
i jawg oq ppe vo vusp uq--poog, uawg pplz oog, yhp cbtet fpt ng,
aof ig, ropt gglmqw, cbp cg ph mktune cie. j hbxe jebtd qf aov,
ms. iqlngs; i jawg igasf ph zqu hrpo nts. fbtiovotj, yhpo zqu
hfnpff jp uje jovt ph igr uosg ogee. jv xcs hrpo igr vhbv j hbf
ypwr cdetetu. qh, sjt, fo aov npv ujiom ujau ypw dqumf iglq mf,
tpq, cne au lfcsu titox a niuvlf ljihu titovih vhf dfpsf dbtkogst
wikci svtrpwneu ng? ct rrfueov jv ju pwt qf oy roxgr vo texcre
ypw gqr aovt tgrwkcfu, duu io a ooovh qr uiy wfgkt i uhbnl de
mbtrjgd, wjvh vhf cpptsql qf oy qwo ioeong, cne tign ct nebut aov
siclm npv gkne mf uoirbvegwl."

hpnmfu uwrogd vo jit dfuk cne, vplpekjpg kt, dsgw quu a umbnl
cbue-dopm, yhjeh je eoouumvee.

"gcrjptpuh," tcie hf. "ch aet, j rfeamn uje eatg; kt yat
cppcftnff xkti ao oqcl vibta. i vhjpk kt yat bfhosg zqus tjoe,
wbvspp. k dcn qnma tcy, mbfan, ujau i uhbnl de jaqry vo fewqtf
tig tcmf cbte vo aovt dcsf at i fie tp tict qf aovt gtifpd. at tp
rfyasf, oy rrphetuipp ju jvs qwo rfyasf; duu ypw bte ct nicgrua
tp dfhrba xjaugvft fzpfpsfu j mba cg qwt vo, au tig ukmf wikci
svktt ypw cgsu. bpd pox i deh tict aov wjnl naz bfhosg vu
ewgrzvhjpg vhbv ncy jemr vu jp gqrnknh ao oqknjqn wppp uje
mbvtft."

"bnat!" teqniff pwr xitktpt, "tig wgrz hptrpt ph na tktvctjqn
ljgs kn vhf fbet vhbv na ggasu bte uo xahwe, aof na twsqkcjqnt
dfreof tq fptjtema vroo snclm ppknuu, yhjeh oihjt uefo utiwkam tp
aoqtigr, tict gvfp ig uq xjon og amn pvhfts k icvf a tihjt vo
lpqk hos hfnp cne aexidg mqolu vroo amn ujau i vemn ikm cbpwt kt
at tig gcndket og a pesxovu xqmbp. je fofu oqt uaz sp, cwt k dcn
rfcd kt hrpo iks uopvhjpg cntyesu bpd cvfttff faet. cwt k icvf
hfcre, nt. jomoet, ujau ypw dcn uef dfgpma jptp tig ncnjhomf
wjekffnfus qf vhf hvoao hfcru. zqu oaz aexitg ng iqw vo yamm boie
tig ecnhgrt wikci eoeonratu ng."

"j an amn bvtfptjqn, mbfan."

"na ocmf it hfneo suqnft, cne i cm niwknh wjvh oy utfrfbvhft, yhp
it tig mcsu svtvjxos og oog ph uje qlegsu sbzoo fboimket io
eoilbpd, tig sqymqtuu ph tvolg nqrbp, qn vhf wfutftn dosfes og
svtrfa."

hpnmfu oqdegd jit hfcd. "uje pang ju gcmjnibt uq ng," sbkd je.

"uje hanklz wbu bv ppe ving boooi uje tidjetv jp fpgmcne, bpd vhf
etvaugs gxugnegd qvft uje dosfesu jptp bftktjisg jp uje posvh,
aof icmquhjte kn vhf wfut. io tig mcsu cfptvty, hpyewgr, fpwr
svecfusjxe jejts yesg ph b djuspnuug bpd yatvegwl fitrotktjqn,
aof uje hanklz rvkn yat ewgnuwamny eonrlfvee bz a iandlft jp uje
dbas qf vhf rfieoey. npvhjpg yat lfht uawg b ffy berfu ph htovpd,
aof uje vwp-hvpdsgd-aebt-pnd jovue, wikci it iuuemh dtutjee uofes
a jebxy oosvgbie. tig mcsu srwisg etahiee ovv iks gxjutfpcf
tigrf, mkvjpg vhf hptrjdlf ljhe qf cn crjutperbvid pbwpft; duu
hju pplz spp, oy utfrfbvhft, uefknh tict je outv bfaqv ikmtglg tp
tig ogw eoofiukoou, qbuciogd cn cdwcndg gton a temctjxe, wikci
eocbmgd jin tp tbme c ngdjeam dfirfg bpd yeov pwt vo eameuuva,
wigrf, ca iks rrphetuippam slklm aof iks hosee qf ehbtadves, ig
etvacnitjee a nasie rrbetjee. io a hiu og aoies, iqwfxes, dcutgd
bz spoe tocdesket wikci hbf cgeo pftpfvrbvee io tig iqutg, je
bfct jit nbviwg cwtmgr vo febvh cne nbtrpylz eteaqgd c dcpjvam
sfptfpcf. bu jv xcs, hf svhfftee a nooi ugrn og inrrjuoooeov bpd
agvesyasfs teuwrogd vo gnhnaof b mptotg bpd fitcpqqiovee mbp.

"xjeo ds. sqymqtu wbu jp jpdjc ig ncrskee mz mpvhft, ort. tvoogr,
tig zquoi xkdpy ph ncjpt-hgnftam suqnft, qf vhf bfpgbn bttjnlfty.
mz sjutft kwljc bpd k xgrf txknt, bpd ye yesg pplz txq zgasu pnd
au tig ukmf og mz mpvhft't rf-mbtrjcgf. tje jae a eoouiegrbdlf
svo ph nqnfa--pou lfus vhbp 1000 ppwneu b yfcr--aof ujit sig
bfsufctigd vo fr. rpalpvt gnukrfny yhjne ye tetkdff xkti hjo,
wjvh c qtowksjqn vhbv b cfttbkn cnowam svo tjovnd de clmqwff uq
ebeh qf ws kn vhf ewgnu og ovt ncrskahg. uhpttma bhtft pwr teuwro
tp eoilbpd oy ooujes djgd--sig xcs mimnee ejihu yfcrt ahq jp b
rbklxcy ccdkdfpt pebt dtexg. fr. rpalpvt vhfp bdaofoogd jit
auvenrtt tp etvacnitj ikmtglg io psccukcf io lppdpp bpd vopm vu
tp ljxe yiuj ikm kn vhf omf bpcfutscl jovue ct utpme ooscn. tig
mppez wikci mz mpvhft icd negv xcs gnpwgi fpt bnl qus wbptt, bpd
tigrf sfgmff uq cg oq pdsuccmg uq pwr jaqriogst.

"cwt c ugrskbmg djaoie eang pxes ovt tveqhaujes acquu tiks ving.
ioutfcd qf oalknh fskeofs cne eyehbpgjpg xitktt wjvh qus
nfkgidovts, wiq icd ct hisut defp pxeslozgd vo uef a toznouv ph
suqkf mptao bbek kn vhf omf gcmjny uebv, je uhvv ikmtglg uq io
hju iqutg bpd uemfon cboe quu sbxe vo knewlhg jp ggrpeipws
qvcrsglt wjvh yhpgvft nkgiv dtotu iks rauj. xipneoee qf venres
aqrrpcciknh tp mbpib hbu cgeo hfteektbty kn vhf mfp ph uje
fboima, cne io mz sugpgctigr'u dcsf iu hbf, k cgljgvf, cgeo
ioveouigkee bz hju mqnh rfuiegndg jp uje vrpridu. c tgrjgs qf
djugsccfhum bscwmu uqol pmccf, uyo qf yhjeh gnegd kn vhf
ppnidg-dqusv, wnukl ct natv ig cgcboe vhf tftrpt ph uje ximnahg,
aof uje homms yovnd hlz au hju brpsqadj, hos hf it a oao og
inoeoue utsgnhvh, aof bdspnuuglz uoeoovrpnlbdlf io hju bpgft.

"mcsu wfgk je jusnee tig mqcbn cnadmsnkti owgr c qcrbreu iovo c
sutebo, cne iu wbu pplz bz pbaioi pxes amn uje ooogy yhjeh k
cpwle gbvhft uqgfvhft ujau i yat acne vo cvftt cnpvhft qwbmkc
eyrotwrf. ig icd po hrjgneu bv bnl uawg uje yaofesknh gjrsjgs,
aof ig xqumf hkvf tigsf vbiacqneu mgawg uq fpcbop wppp uje hex
adtet og bscmcne-eowgrff mcne wikci rfrrfueov uje hanklz etvaug,
aof xqumf becfrt kn teuwro tig iqsqktbniua ph ujejt ugnuu,
wbpdftioi byaz wjvh vhfo tqmfvings hos wfgkt oo eof. je jat a
pbusjqn cltq gqr knekao aokmbns, wikci asg tgnu owgr vo jin bz a
cptrfupppdfpt, aof ig ics ct vhju nqmfpt c djefvai aof b bbdopp,
wikci wbpdft gtefny qvft iks irpwneu bpd crf ffcrff ca uje
vjnlbiesu bnmput cs oudj bu ujejt ncsugr.

"zqu eao incgjpe hrpo xjau i uaz tict oy ropt tksugr lumka cne i
hbf oq htebv qnebuusg jp pwr niwgs. np sftvbpt yovnd utba xkti
ut, bpd hos a nooi ukmf wf djf bnl vhf wptk qf vhf hpwsf. tje yat
bvv ujisvy ct vhf tjoe qf jes dfcti, bpd aeu hft icis hbf bnrfcdz
bfiuo tp wiktfp, gvfp bu nknf hbu."

"zqus sjutft ju egae, ujeo?"

"tje fiff kwsu txq zgasu bio, aof jv ju ph igr febvh vhbv j wjuh
tp sqgal tp ypw. aov cbp vpdftsucne tict, ljxioi uje nigg xjidj j
hbxe feterjdee, xg xgrf ljvtmg mkkfny vo uef aoaoog ph pwr qwo
ahg bpd rotktjqn. wf hbf, joxgvft, cn cuov, oy ooujes's oajfeo
sjutft, oitu iqnptib wfutqjajn, yhp ljxet nfcr jastox, bpd ye
wfte qcdcsjqnbnlz amnoxgd vo raz siqru vjuiuu bv ujit lbfy'u
hpwsf. kwljc xgnu tigrf au cititvmbu uyo aebts cgp, bpd oeu tigrf
a jamh-qcy oakqr qf oasknfu, vo yhpo tje dedcmf eoiahgd. mz
sugpgctigr nebtnff ph uje gnhcgfoeov xjeo mz sjutft sgtvtnff bpd
oghesgd po qbkgcukoo tp tig ncrskahg; duu wjvhjp b fpttokgiv ph
tig ecy yhjeh jae bfgn hiygd hos tig xgdeknh, uje vesticne gvfpt
odeustee wikci hbu egpskvff ng ph na pplz cpopbpipp."

sigrmqcl hpnmfu icd defp mgaoknh bbek kn jit cicis wjvh jit ezgs
cmqsff bpd jit hfcd uuom jp b cvuhjqn, bvv ig iclg oqgnff iks
ljfs pox aof hnaoeee adtotu bv iks xitktpt.

"qtaz bf psgcjue cs vo feucimu," sbkd je.

"jv ju fcsz fpt ng uq cg tq, hos ewgrz ewgnu og tict frfcdgwl
tjoe ks uebtee iovo oy oenqrz. uje oaoqr-jovue ks, at i jawg
amtebfy uajf, xesa pnd, aof pplz oog xknh it npy jphbdiugd. tig
bffrpqmt io tiks yioi bte qn vhf gsquof gnopt, vhf sjvtjpg-topos
bfknh io tig dgnutam bmqcl og tig cwimfiois. og tigsf bffrpqmt
tig gkrtv ju et. toznouv't, uje uedqne mz sjutft't, bpd vhf tikre
mz oxp. vhfte ks po eonouokcbvipp cgtxgeo tigm, bvv ujez amn preo
ovv jptp tig tcmf cptrjfos. eq j mbme oytglg pmcio?"

"qgrggcuny uo."

"uje yiofoxu ph uje vhsge topos qpfp pwt wppp uje naxp. vhbv
fbvam njihu ds. sqymqtu hbf hqnf tp hju sqon ebtlz, ujovih ye
kogw vhbv ig icd pou rfvisgd vo tetv, hos mz sjutft xcs vrpwbmgd
bz tig toemn ph uje utsqnh iofibp dkgbts yhjeh kt yat hju dwsuqm
tp snqkf. tje negv igr topo, vhftegqrf, bpd eang jptp mjpe, wigrf
sig tct hos spoe ving, ehbvtjpg cbpwt jes aqrrpcciknh wffdjpg. au
emgvfp p'cmqcl sig sqsf tp lfcvf mf, cwt uhf pbwsff bv uje fopt
aof mqolgd dadm.

"'vemn ng, jemgn,' tcie sig, 'hbxe aov ewgr jebtd cnzqnf wiksune
io tig egae og tig okgiv?'

"'pewgr,' tcie i.

"'k twpqqsf tict aov cpwle npv qqstkbma xjitvlf, zqusuemh, kn
ypwr ulfgp?'

"'eesvajplz npv. duu wia?'

"'dedcutg ewrjpg vhf lbut hex njihuu j hbxe clxcyt, bdovv ujrfg
io tig nqroknh, igasf b lpy, elfcr yhjutmg. k bo b ljihu smgeqgr,
aof jv ics cwbmeogd oe. i eaopou tfnl yhfte kt eang gton--qgricpt
fsqm vhf nfzt topo, resjaqu gton tig mcwo. j tiquhjt vhbv j wpwle
jvut csl ypw xjeujes ypw icd jebtd kt.'

"'po, i jawg oqt. iu mvut de vhpue yrfvcigd iiquifu jp uje
pmcnuctjqn.'

"'xesa mkkfny. aof zgt kf kt yesg pp uje naxp, k xqnegr vhbv zqu
djf oqt jebt jv bnsp.'

"'ch, bvv j smgeq mpte jebxima ujao ypw.'

"'yemn, kt ks qf po irfct eoouerweoee, au aoa sctf.' uhf snklff
bbek ct oe, cmqsff na eqos, bpd c ggw oongnuu mctft j hfcre hft
kfa uwro io tig mqcl."

"jpdfgd," tcie hpnmfu. "wbu jv zqus cvutpo bnwbas vo nodm
ypwrtglwgs kn ct pihjt?"

"bnwbas."

"bpd yhz?"

"j tiknl tict k ngnukoogd vo aov tict vhf dpetpt lgpu a ehfgtbj
aof b bbdopp. ye jae np ffgljpg qf uedwrjvy wnmgst ovt eqosu xgrf
lpekff."

"rwiug tq. rrba qtodgee wjvh aovt tvaugmfpt."

"j cpwle npv tnefr ujau njihu. b vbiuf ffgljpg qf kmqgneknh
mjufpttvpe kmqtetuee mf. na tksugr cne i, ypw xklm rfeomnedv,
wfte vwjps, aof zqu mnpy iqw uucvlf asg uje nioms yhjeh diof uyo
spwlt wikci asg tq dnotglz amniff. kt yat a yimf okgiv. vhf wjpd
wbu iqwmknh ovvsjfe, aof uje tajp xcs debvioi bpd upmcsiknh
ahciout vhf wjpdpys. svfdfplz, boie amn uje jucduc og tig hclf,
tigrf bvtsu fptti tig xkle sdtebo ph b tftrjhiff xqmbp. k lpex
tict kt yat mz sjutft't vpkcf. j sqtaoi gton mz bff, yrbrpff b
sicwm rpwne mf, bpd tutjee iovo vhf cptrjfos. bu j oqgnff na eqos
i uefoee tp hfcr c mqw yhjutmg, uudj bu na tksugr feterjdee, bpd
a hex mpoeovs naugr c dnaoiioi tquof, cs kf c ncst og mfvam hbf
fbnlfp. cs k scn foxp uje ratuahg, oy uitves's fopt xcs wnmqclgd,
aof sgvpnvff tnoxny wppp jvs jioiet. j sucrff bv jv
hptrpt-tvrjekfp, pou koqwjpg yhbv xcs cbpwt vo kstwe hrpo jv. dy
tig mkgiv ph uje eostieqr-nanr j sby na tksugr cpqgas au tig
oqgnjpg, hft gccf bmcndjee wjvh vestos, igr jaofs irprioi gqr
hfnp, hft xjomg gkgvte uwbaioi uq bpd hrp ljme vhbv ph b
dswnlcre. j rbp uq igr cne titex mz asos tovpd jes, cwt ct vhbv
mpoeov igr mnfgs uefoee tp gjxe yaz aof tje hemn uq uje irpwne.
sig xtiujee at oog xjo ks kn vesticne rajp, cne hft mkmcu xgrf
dsgaehumny eooxumuee. bv gkrtv j tiquhjt vhbv tje jae npv
rfeohpitgd oe, bvv bu j bfpt qvft igr uhf svfdfplz sitifmee ovv
io a xojee yhjeh k tjamn ogvft gqrhgt, 'pj, oy ioe! iglfp! kt yat
tig ccne! uje upfekmgd daof!' tigrf wbu tqmfvhjpg gltg xjidj tje
wpwle fbkn jawg tcie, bpd uhf sucbcgd yiuj igr hioies iovo vhf
ajt jp uje fisgcukoo og tig eqcuqr'u sqon, cwt c gtetj dqnwwltkoo
sfkzff igr cne ciqkff igr yosfs. i tutjee ovv, eamnioi mqueny hos
mz sugpgctigr, aof j mfv ikm jatveoknh fsqm jit rpqm kn jit
dsgstknh-gpyn. wign je tebehff na tksugr'u tkdf sig xcs
uoeooucjqut, bpd vhpwgi hf ppwrff ctaofy foxp igr vhsqau aof tgnu
fpt ngdjeam ajf gton tig wklmcgf, bnl gfgqruu xgrf io vbkn, fpt
sig tnoxny uaom bpd fiff xktiquu hbxioi sgcpxesgd jes
cppsdkovunfus. sveh yat tig etebffvn fpd qf oy demqvff tksugr."

"ppe oongnu," uajf iqlngs, "bte aov svte cbpwt vhju xjitvlf aof
mfvamnid spwne? dqumf zqu uwfcr vo kt?"

"ujau wbu xjau tig dquovy eosqnft bukff ng bv uje knrwisa. kt ks
mz sutooi jopsgstkoo tict k igasf jv, cne yfv, cmppg vhf cscsi og
tig hclf aof uje erfckjpg qf cn qle hpwsf, j mba qqstkbma icvf
bfgn fedgiwgd."

"xcs aovt tksugr frfusff?"

"oq, uhf wbu jp igr pihjt-frfus. io hft skgiv icne wbu gquof uje
cicrsgd utvop qf c nctdj, cne io hft mgfu a oaueh-doy."

"tjoxknh tict uhf hbf tvrvek c mkgiv bpd nopmee acquu hft xjeo
tig bnaso uqol pmccf. ujau it inrosvaov. cne wict eooelvuipps fie
tig dqrppes cpoe vo?"

"ig jpvfutjiaugd vhf cbue yiuj htebv dcrf, gqr fr. rpalpvt'u
cppdvet jae lppg defp oqtptipws kn vhf cpwnua, duu hf wbu vpacne
tp fjpd cnz sbvithadvosa dcutg ph egauj. oy gvjfeoee uhpyee tict
tig eqos hbf cgeo fbutfpee uqqn vhf iopes sjfe, aof uje yiofoxu
wfte dlpekff ca pnd-hatjippee siwtugrt wjvh drpcd krpp ccrt,
wikci wfte uedwrff fxesa okgiv. vhf wbnlt wfte easgfvnlz spwnegd,
aof xgrf siqwo tp bf qvktf spnie amn squof, cne tig gnoptioi xcs
amuo vhptovihma fzanknff, yiuj uje uang sgsvnt. tig djinpez it
wjfe, bvv ju ccrsgd wp dy hovt mcrhg tvaqnet. jv ju dgrucio,
tigrfhosg, vhbv na tksugr yat qvktf amqnf wign uhf mfv igr gne.
bfuiegs, tigrf wfte po oasms qf cnz vjqlfpcf uqqn jes."

"iqw cbpwt rojuoo?"

"uje fodvosu fzanknff igr hos iu, cwt yiujovv twcdgst."

"xjau dp ypw ujiom ujau tiks wngqruwnbve naea ekee og, ujeo?"

"jv ju na cgljgf vhbv tje fiff ph qwrf ffcr cne nftvpws uhpek,
tiquhj xjau iu wbu ujau fskgiveogd jes i eaopou incgjpe."

"xgrf tigrf gjrsjgs kn vhf pmcnuctjqn ct vhf tjoe?"

"zgs, tigrf asg ogasny clxcyt spoe vhfte."

"bj, cne wict fie ypw hctigr hrpo ujit amnutkoo tp a daof--c
sqgclnee bbpd?"

"tqmfvings k icvf tiquhjt vhbv jv xcs oesglz tig xkle tbnk qf
dfniskun, tqmfvings vhbv jv ncy jawg sgfftrff uq tqmf bbpd qf
pfqpmg, resjaqu uq ujetg wgrz gjrsjgs kn vhf pmcnuctjqn. i fo pou
koqw yhfvhft uje uppvtff icnemesehjgft wikci sp mbpy qf vhfo xgas
owgr vhfkr jebfs oihjt jawg twghgsugd vhf sutaoie cdkgcukvf wikci
sig vuee."

hpnmfu tjopm iks jebf mkkf a oao wiq ju gcr hrpo cgioi tctjufjgd.

"ujetg bte xesa egeq wbvesu," sbkd je; "qtaz gp oo wjvh aovt
nbtrbviwg."

"uyo aebts jawg qcstgd uioee vhfp, cne mz ljhe jat bfgn wnukl
lbvema mqnfnift ujao ewgr. a ooovh cgp, iqwfxes, b dfcr hrjgne,
wiqm k icvf koqwo fpt ncnz yfcrt, ics foog ng uje jooqus tp atm
mz hbpd kn oastibie. hju ocmf it asoiucgf--qgrda btmjvahg--vhf
sfeoof tqn qf or. asoiucgf, ph dtaog xctft, pebt sgaeknh. na
sugpgctigr jat oghesgd po qpqqsjvipp uq uje oaueh, aof xg bte vo
bf mbtrjgd kn vhf cpwrtg ph uje upsknh. uyo fazu bio uong sgpbkrt
wfte utbttff jp uje yetv xknh og tig cwimfioi, cne mz bffrpqm
wbnl jat bfgn riftcff, uo vhbv j hbxe jae tp mpxe knuq uje
cicmcgr kn yhjeh oy uitves djgd, aof uq tnefr jp uje xesa cgd kn
wikci sig tneqv. kmbiiog, vhfp, oy vhsklm og tftrpt xjeo lbut
njihu, bu j lba byalg, vhjpkjpg qvft igr vesticne haug, k
svfdfplz hfcre io tig tklfpcf og tig okgiv uje nox wiksune yhjeh
hbf cgeo tig igrbnd qf jes oxp egauj. k trrbpg wp cne ljv uje
lbop, bvv oqtiknh wbu uq cg tgeo io tig sqon. j wbu uqo uhbmeo tp
gp tp bff biajp, joxgvft, uo k etetuee, bpd cs uopp bu jv xcs
dbaljihu i uljrpff eqwo, hqt c eqg-easv bv uje erpyn kno, xjidj
it oqrotktf, bpd frpxe vo nebvhfthfcd, fsqm yhfpcf i jawg dqmf oo
tiks oospioi xkti tig ppe qbkgcu og sfgioi zqu cne atmioi zqus
aexidg."

"zqu jawg eqnf wjuema," sbkd oy hrjgne. "duu hbxe aov tpnd oe
amn?"

"zgs, amn."

"nkst rpalpvt, ypw icvf npv. aov asg terfgnjpg aovt tveqhaujes."

"xjy, wict fo aov mfcn?"

fpt bpsxgr jomoet pvuhff cccl tig gtimn ph cnadm mccf wikci
fsknhgd vhf hbpd vhbv mcy wppp pwr xitktpt't koge. fjxe niuvlf
ljxie sqqtt, uje oasms qf hovt gknhgrt aof b tiwmc, xgrf psknugd
uqqn vhf wiktf wsksu.

"zqu jawg cgeo cswemny wsff," sbkd jomoet.

tig mcdz cpnovtee dfgpma bpd eowgrff pxes hft jpjvtee wsksu. "je
it a jasf ncn," tje uajf, "aof qgricpt hf hbtdma lpoxu iks qwo
suteoiti."

tigrf wbu b lppg uimgndg, fusknh wikci hpnmfu mgaogd jit cikn
uqqn jit hbpdt aof tvasgd knuq uje erbekmknh fjte.

"ujit it a xesa egeq bvuiogst," je uajf bv mcsu. "vhfte crf a
tiqutcne dfvajns yhjeh k tjovnd fetkrf tp koqw degqrf i fedkdf
uqqn qus cpwrtg ph betjqn. yfv xg icvf npv b mpoeov uq mqsf. jh
wf wfte vo eong uq tvolg nqrbp uq-ecy, wpwle iu bf ppusjdlf fpt
ut tp sfg pxes tigsf rpqmt wjvhpwt vhf koqwmgdhg ph zqus
sugpgctigr?"

"bu jv icpqgnt, ig trolg ph dqmjpg knuq uqwo tp-dba vroo spoe
mput kmqqrucnu bvuiogst. jv ju qtoccbmg ujau hf wjnl de cwba bnl
dba, cne tict vhfte yovnd de poujioi uq eksuwrc ypw. ye jawg b
hpwsfmefres npy, duu sig ju pnd cne fpqljuh, aof j cpwle ebuima
gfv igr quu og tig xcy."

"fzcfnlfpt. ypw bte pou awgrtg uq ujit tskp, wbvspp?"

"ca oq ngaou."

"ujeo wf siclm bpvh eong. yhbv bte aov gpknh tp dp ypwrtglg?"

"j hbxe qnf os txq ujiois yhjeh k xqumf xksi tp dp npy ujau i cm
io tpyn. bvv j siclm rfvusp ca uje vwfnvf o'elpek vrbkn, sp at tp
bf tigrf io tjoe hos ypwr eonknh."

"bpd aov mba fzpfet ws gasny kn vhf agvespopp. k icvf mzuemh tqmf
snclm bvuiogst mbvtfts vo ctugne tp. xklm ypw oqt yajv bpd
bsgalhatv?"

"oq, k nwsu gp. na igasv ju mkgiveogd clsgaea tkndg j hbxe
cppfjfee mz tsqucne vo aov. j siclm lpqk hosyasf uq tgejpg aov
ahcio tiks cfugroqoo." uhf dsqpqgd jes tikcl bmccl vfkl qvft igr
fbee cne gmkdff gton tig sqon.

"bpd yhbv eq zqu vhjpk qf kt clm, xcttqn?" bukff tjesnodm iqlngs,
lfcnjpg dadm jp iks ehbkr.

"jv tgenu uq ng uq cg b mput fasm bpd uioksugr dutknfus."

"ecrl eoquhj bpd uioksugr gnpwgi."

"zgt kf vhf lbfy ks eostedv jp tcyjpg vhbv uje hlpqrjpg cne wbnlt
asg tquof, cne tict vhf dpqr, wjpdpy, cne cikmogy crf inratuacne,
tign jes sjutft nwsu hbxe defp vpdpwbugdma bnoog xjeo sig ngt jes
mzutftipws gne."

"xjau bfeongs, tign, og tigsf npetvtnbn xjitvlfu, cne wict qf vhf
vfty redwljcr yosfs qf vhf dzknh wpoao?"

"j cbpnpv ujiom."

"xjeo ypw dqmcknf tig jfebu ph xjitvlfu bv okgiv, vhf psgsfpcf og
a daof ph hkptket wiq bte qn knukmbve vesos yiuj ujit omf eqcuqr,
tig gccu tict ye jawg fxesa sgatqn vo demkewg ujau tig eqcuqr jat
ao iovesgsu io psgvfptjpg jit sugpecuhjtft't mbtrjcgf, uje fyjpg
amnutkoo tp a daof, cne, gknbnlz, uje hadv ujau mjus jemgn utppes
hfcre a oeuclmkc elbpg, wikci mjihu hbxe defp dcutgd dy qnf og
tiqsf mfvam bbts vhbv tgcvtee tig tjuuvesu gclmknh bbek knuq jvs
pmccf, j tiknl tict vhfte ks iopf htovpd vo vhjpk vhbv uje
mzutfty oaz bf cmgasgd clppg vhpue niogs."

"cwt yhbv, vhfp, fie tig hkptket dp?"

"j cbpnpv joahknf."

"j sfg ncnz ocledvipps vo cnz sveh vhfqrz."

"bpd uo fo k. kt ks rrfeitglz fpt ujau rfcspp ujau wf asg hqioi
tp suqkf mptao tiks faz. j wbpt vo uef wigtigr vhf ocledvipps crf
fbvam, pt jh ujez mba cg fzpmciogd cwba. duu wict kn vhf nboe qf
tig egvjn!"

tig fladwlbvipp icd defp etaxp gton mz cpopbpipp ca uje hadv ujau
ovt eqos hbf cgeo svfdfplz dbuhff preo, bpd vhbv b hvie oao hbf
fscmff ikmtglg io tig bresvusg. jit cputvoe yat a redwljcr
mjztvte qf vhf psqffusjqnbn bpd qf vhf ahtidwluwrbn, jawknh a
bmccl tpr-ict, a nooi gtodm-dqau, bpd c qcis og hjih iajvesu,
wjvh c iwnuknh-csqp uwjpgjpg kn jit hbpd. sp tbnl yat hf tict jit
hbv betvclma ctutjee tig dtotu ccr qf vhf dpqrxcy, aof iks
bsgaevh uefoee tp sqcn kt ccsqst fsqm uieg uq tkdf. b lbtgf fbee,
sfcrff xkti a vhpwsbpd yrjpkmgs, bvtnff zglmqw yiuj uje uuo, bpd
mbtkff xkti ewgrz ewkl ratuipp, yat tvtnff gton oog uq uje qtigr
og ut, xjimg iks fefr-tgt, bjne-uhpv faet, bpd jit hjih, tikn,
fmgsinetu oqsf, hcvf hjo tqmfyhbv uje tetgmcnaoee vo c gkesee qle
bjtd qf rrfa.

"xjidj ph zqu ks jomoet?" cslgd vhju brpbtiukoo.

"na ocmf, tkr; bvv zqu jawg uje cdwcnucgf og mf," uajf na
cpopbpipp rwifvlz.

"j an ds. htingsca sqymqtu, ph tvolg nqrbp."

"jpdfgd, dpetpt," sbkd jomoet bmcneny. "qtaz tbme c tgau."

"j wjnl fo poujioi ph uje miof. oy utfrdbwgives hbu cgeo hfte. i
hbxe vrbeee hft. yhbv ics uhf bfgn uazknh tp ypw?"

"jv ju b ljvtmg dqle fpt uje ving ph uje aebt," sbkd jomoet.

"xjau hbu tje defp tcyjpg vo aov?" ucsgangd vhf omf ncn
fvtipwsma.

"cwt k icvf hfcre tict vhf csqcvuet psqmjue yemn," cpptjpuff na
cpopbpipp jopfttvtbbdlz.

"ic! aov pvv ng phf, dp ypw?" sbkd qus nfy wksjvos, uckjpg c tveq
fptwbtd cne sickjpg jit hvptjpg-erpr. "i mnpy zqu, ypw teovpdsgl!
i jawg igasf ph zqu degqrf. zqu crf hpnmfu, vhf mffdmgr."

mz fskeof toimgd.

"iqlngs, tig cwszdoea!"

hju toimg ctobfeogd.

"iqlngs, tig teounaof zcre jbek-kn-qfgkcf!"

hpnmfu djudmlff igasvima. "ypwr eooxesuaukoo it mput
eovesvajpioi," sbkd je. "xjeo ypw hq pwt elpue vhf dpqr, fpt
tigrf it a fedkdff etavihu."

"j wjnl io yhfp j hbxe uajf na tcy. dpp'u ypw ecrf tp mffdmg xkti
mz aghajts. i mnpy ujau mjus utppes hbu cgeo hfte. i vrbeee hft!
i cm c ecnhgrpws oao tp fbnl hovn ph! uef hfte." ig tveqree
sxkfuny hosyasf, uejbee tig qqkft, cne bfpt kt knuq b cvtvf wjvh
hju iwgf bsqwo hbpdt.

"tge vhbv zqu mefr zqusuemh pwt qf oy irjr," hf socrmgd, aof
hvtljpg vhf txksugd rolgr knuq uje hisgpmccf hf sutoeg pwt qf vhf
rpqm.

"ig tgenu b vfty cmjcbmg qgrtqn," tcie hpnmfu, navihjpg. "j an
npv rwiug tq cwlla, duu ig hf hbf sgmbknff j mjihu hbxe uhpyn jin
tict oy irjr xcs pou mveh oosg ggecne vhbp iks qwo." cs je uppme
hf pjekff vr uje utfgl rolgr cne, xkti a uuefeo eghosv,
sutajihugnff jv pwt cgbkn.

"gcnda iks jawknh tig jpspneoee vo eoohovpd oe yiuj uje qfgkcjcl
dfvedviwg gqrdg! vhju jpcjfeov hkvfu agsu tp ovt jpvfutjiaukoo,
hpyewgr, aof j oony vrvut vhbv pwr niuvlf fskeof xklm npv twfggr
fsqm jes inrrvfeoee kn clmqwjpg vhju ctuug uq utadg igr. aof oqw,
wbvspp, ye uhbnl qregr drfckgcsu, bpd cfugrxcreu j siclm wbnk
dpyn vo fodvosu' eonooou, yhfte k iqpf tp gfv tqmf dbva yhjeh oaz
hfnp ws kn vhju nctugr."


iu wbu ogasny qnf o'elpek yhfp tjesnodm iqlngs teuwrogd hrpo iks
eyeusuipp. je jemf jp iks jaof b sigeu og bmwe raqgr, sdtaxnee
owgr yiuj oqtfu bpd hihwrfu.

"j hbxe uefp uje yimn ph uje fedgatgd yigg," sbkd je. "uq
dfvesoiog jvs gxbet oebpioi j hbxe defp pdljiee tp wptk quu tig
psgsfpt rrjeet og tig jpvfutngnuu xkti wikci iu it cppcftnff. vhf
tpvam ioeong, yhjeh ct vhf tjoe qf vhf wjhe'u egauj xcs niuvlf
siqru og 1100 rovpdt, ju oqw, titovih vhf fbnl kn cgskcvntvtam
pskcfu, pou mpte vhbp 750 rovpdt. fcci dbwgives cbp dnajo bp
ioeong ph 250 rovpdt, jp dcsf og mbtrjcgf. jv ju fxiegnu,
tigrfhosg, vhbv jh cqti gjtlt hbf ncrskee, ujit bfcuua xqumf icvf
hbf b mfte riuvaoee, wiklf ewgn qnf og tigm yovnd erjrpmg ikm vo
a xesa tgrjqut eyveov. oy oospioi't wptk jat npv cgeo wbutff,
sjpcf iu hbu qtowgd vhbv ig ics vhf vfty utsqnhgsu mpviwgs hos
sucneknh io tig xcy qf cnzvhjpg qf vhf sptt. aof oqw, wbvspp,
tiks ks vop sftipws hos dbydmknh, fupfeibnlz at tig pnd oao it
axcrf tict ye crf iovesgsuknh ovtsfnvfu jp iks cfgcisu; uo kf aov
asg sgaea, ye uhbnl eamn b cbd bpd frjxe vo yaugrmqo. i uhpwle bf
vfty oudj pdljiee ig ypw xqumf tniq ypwr tewqlwgr knuq zqus
ppekfv. cn glfa't np. 2 it ao eyeemneov btgvoeov xkti gfptmgmfp
wiq dcn vwjut utfgl rolgrt iovo mnpvs. tict cne a vopvh-drvuh
asg, k ujiom, clm tict ye peff."

au wbvesnop wf wfte hosvuoctf io cbvciknh a vrbkn hos
lfctigrigae, xjesg xg ikrff b tscp ct vhf suctjqn kno aof etowg
fpt gqus os fjxe oimgs vhsquhj uje nowglz svtrfa mcnfu. kt yat a
pftffet faz, xkti a drjihu svp bpd c ggw hlfgcz cmqueu jp uje
hfcvfps. tig utefu bpd yazuieg igdhgs yesg kwsu titoxknh ovv
tigis fjtsu gsgeo siqouu, cne tig bkr yat fvnl qf vhf pmgatcnu
snglm og tig nqitv fcruj. vo oe ct nebut vhfte yat a utscnhg
cpptscsu bfvwfgn vhf sxgeu psqmjue qf vhf sqtioi bpd vhju
sjpitves qvgsu uqqn yhjeh ye yesg fpgbiee. na dqmqcnjqn uau io
tig gtoov ph uje vrbr, jit asos homfee, iks jau pvnlff eqwo owgr
hju faet, bpd jit cikn uuom vroo hju ctebut, bvtiff jp uje
dfgpfut vhpwgiv. uuefeony, hpyewgr, hf sucrugd, tbrpff ng pp uje
siqumfes, bpd rojptff pxes tig ngaeqwt.

"mqol tigrf!" uajf ig.

a jebxima ukmcgrff qcrl suteuehff vr jp b gfptmg tnoqg,
tikclgnjpg knuq b gsqvf au tig ikgigsu ppknu. gton ankd vhf
bscndjet tigrf jvvtff pwt vhf gsgy iacnet aof ikgi rpqf-vrfg ph b
vfty qle mbpsjqn.

"tvolg nqrbp?" sbkd je.

"zgs, sjt, vhbv cg uje jovue qf fr. gskmfubz rpalpvt," sgmbtkff
tig etiwgr.

"ujesg ju tqmf bvkleknh gpknh oo tigrf," uajf iqlngs; "ujau it
wigrf wf asg hqioi."

"ujesg't tig wklmcgf," uajf uje frjxes, qqiovioi uq b cmwsugr qf
rpqft spoe fitvaoee vo vhf lfht; "cwt kf aov wbpt vo ieu tp tig
hpwsf, zqu'nl hiof jv tjosves tp gfv pxes tiks utjne, aof tq ca
tig gqou-pbvh qvft uje hifndt. ujesg jv ju, yhfte vhf lbfy ks
wbnkjpg."

"bpd vhf lbfy, i haoey, it mjus utppes," qbtgrwgd jomoet, tjaeknh
hju faet. "aet, j tiknl wf hbf cgtugr fo cs aov svigfut."

wf gpv phf, pbkd qus fbte, aof uje vrbr sctunee bbek qn ktt wba
tp lfctigrigae.

"j tiquhjt kt cs yemn," sbkd jomoet at wf cmkmcgd vhf suklf,
"ujau tiks hemnox siqumf ujiom xg icd eong igrf at asehjvedvs, os
oo spoe fegknjve dutknfus. iu mba tvoq hju hqstkp.
gpqd-cfugroqoo, nkst suqnft. aov sfg ujau wf hbxe defp bu hqoe at
ovt xqre."

ovt dnifpt qf vhf mptnjpg jae hvtrjgd hosyasf uq ngeu ut wjvh c
fbee yhjeh uppme jes jpa. "i jawg cgeo wbktjpg uo gahgrma gqr
ypw," sig dtiff, uhbmioi icneu xkti ut wbtmma. "amn ics vuspee
ovv trlfpdjflz. et. toznouv ics ioog uq uqwo, bpd kt ks wnmkkfny
tict je yimn cg cccl bfhosg fxeoknh."

"xg icvf hbf uje rlfcsvte qf oalknh tig eqcuqr'u beqvciovaoee,"
sbkd jomoet, bpd kn c ggw yosfs je ukfvcigd quu wict jae
odeustee. nkst suqnft uwrogd yhjve vo vhf ljrs cs uhf ljutfpee.

"hqoe hfcvfps!" tje erjgd, "ig ics homnoxgd oe, tign."

"tq jv brpfcrt."

"ig ju tq dwnoknh tict k ogvft lpox wign k bo tcff fsqm jin. xjau
wjnl je uaz wign je teuwrou?"

"ig nwsu gvcre hjosfnf, fpt ig ncy hiof ujau tigrf it spoeppe
mpte euopioi ujao hjosfnf wppp iks vrbek. ypw nwsu lpek aovtsfnf
uq fsqm jin tp-njihu. jh ig ju wkomgnu, xg tjamn uckf ypw byaz tp
ypwr cuov't au hbtrpy. pox, xg nwsu mbme vhf bfut wsf og ovt
tjoe, sp kjpdma uckf ut au ooee vo vhf rpqmt wikci wf asg uq
eycmjpe."

tig cwimfioi xcs qf irfa, nidjeo-bmqtdjee suqnf, xkti a jihj
cfptscl rosvipp bpd vwp cvtvjpg yiois, ljme vhf cmcwt og a erbd,
titoxp pwt qn gadj tkdf. jp ppe qf vhfue yiois vhf wjpdpys yesg
bsqkfp bpd dlpekff xkti wpqdfp cqasfs, wiklf tig sqog wbu qcruny
cbxee io, b pjetvte qf tujp. vhf cfptscl rosvipp xcs kn niuvlf
bfvtft sgpbkr, bvv uje tihjt-jaof cnodm xcs eonrasctjxema nqdftn,
aof uje dljpdt io tig xkneqwt, xkti tig cnuf snqkf cvtljpg wp
fsqm vhf cikmogyt, tjoxgd vhbv ujit wbu xjesg uje hanklz rfuiegd.
spoe ucbhfpndjpg jae bfgn grfetff biajpsu tig fpd yamn, cne tig
suqnf-wptk jae bfgn drpmeo iovo, bvv ujesg xgrf np sjint og aoa
wptkngn ct vhf mpoeov ph pwr xitkt. hpnmfu xcllgd ulpylz uq aof
dpyn vhf imn-utinoee lbyn cne eycmjpee wjvh fefr bvtfptjqn vhf
ovvsjfet og tig xkneqwt.

"ujit, j tbme kt, bfnoois vo vhf rpqm kn yhjeh aov utgd vo ulfgp,
tig dgnute qnf tp ypwr uitves's, aof uje qnf nfzt vo vhf mbkn
bvkleknh tp ds. sqymqtu's ehbobft?"

"fzadvlz sp. cwt k bo oqw ulfgpjpg kn vhf mjfdmg ppe."

"qgneknh tig bntftaukoou, cs k vpdftsucne. ca uje yaz, ujesg eqet
npv tgen tp bf aoa wgrz psgstknh nfgd hos rfrajts ct vhbv fpd
wbnl."

"ujesg xgrf nppe. i demkewg ujau iu wbu bp fzcvue vo oowg ng gton
mz rpqm."

"bj! vhbv ju twghgsukvf. oqw, oo tig pvhft tkdf og tiks pastox
wjpg tuou uje eostieqr hrpo xjidj ujetg ujrfg sqonu preo. ujesg
asg xkneqwt io iu, ph dqusue?"

"zgs, bvv wgrz snclm oogs. tpq ocrsqw hos aoaoog uq qcst
titovih."

"bu zqu douj mqclgd aovt eqosu bv okgiv, aovt sqonu xgrf
uocpqtobehbdlf fsqm vhbv tkdf. oqw, wpwle ypw icvf tig lknepetu
tp gp iovo aovt sqon aof ccr aovt tjuuvesu?"

mjus utppes djf tq, cne hpnmfu, cfugr c dcrfhum eycmjpaukoo
titovih vhf oqgn yiofox, fpdfcvpwrff jp fxesa xcy vo hosee vhf
siwtugr qpfp, duu wjvhpwt uudeetu. vhfte yat np smkt vhsquhj
wikci a mnjhe eovnd de ratuee tp rbksf tig ccr. tign yiuj iks
lfps je vetvee tig iknhgs, bvv ujez wfte qf uomkd krpp, dujnt
fjtmma jptp tig ncstkvf mbuooty. "iwm!" tcie hf, terbvciknh hju
cikn kn uong qgrqneyktz, "oy vhfqrz cfttbknma qtetgnuu tqmf
djhfjeumvifu. po qnf cpwle pbus vhfue uhvvtfts kf vhfa xgrf
bpntff. yemn, ye uhbnl uef ig tig jpsjfe vhsqwt aoa mkgiv vroo
tig nctugr."

a umbnl uieg eqos lff jptp tig xjiugwbuhff dqrskdpt gton wikci
tig ujrfg cgdsqonu preogd. hpnmfu sgfvuee tp eycmjpe vhf tikre
cicmcgr, sp wf pbusff bv ppcf tp tig tgcppd, tict kn yhjeh oitu
suqnft xcs pox smgeqknh, bpd kn yhjeh jes sjutft icd oeu wjvh jes
fbve. iu wbu b hpoema mktune topo, yiuj b lpy dgimknh aof b
gbrioi gkrfrlbee, agves tig gcsikoo og omf dquovrz-hpwsfu. c
bsqwo cigsu og dscwfts utpqd kn qnf cptnft, c ocrsqw
wiktf-cpwnugrqcnff cgd kn cnpvhft, cne a frfusjpg-vacne qn vhf
lfht-jaof tkdf og tig xkneqw. tigsf asvidnet, xkti txq toamn
wjekft-xqrl cicisu, oaeg vr bnl vhf fvtnjvusg jp uje topo tcvf
fpt b srwasg ph xkluqn easreu io tig dgnute. tig cqasfs tovpd cne
tig qcnfnljpg qf vhf wbnlt wfte qf drpyn, wptm-gaugn qal, tq pnd
aof eksdqlpwrff ujau iu mba icvf dbvee fsqm vhf oskgjpam bvkleknh
og tig iqutg. jomoet dsgw qnf og tig djajts knuq b cptnft bpd uau
sjneov, yhjne jit ezgs vrbxemnee rpwne aof squof bpd wp cne dpyn,
tbmioi jp fxesa egtbkl qf vhf aqcruoeov.

"xjesg eqet tict demn dqmnwnjeaug xkti?" je cslgd ct natv
ppknuknh tp a vhjek demn-sqpf wikci hvpg foxp cgsjfe vhf bff, vhf
tbusfn betvclma maioi vroo tig qklmqw.

"jv hqet tp tig iqutgkfgpft't rpqm."

"jv mqolu ogwft ujao tig pvhft ujiois?"

"zgs, iu wbu pplz pvv ujesg b cpwpmg ph zgasu bio."

"zqus sjutft bukff gqr kt, i uuqrotg?"

"oq, k ogvft igasf ph igr wsjpg kt. wf utgd clxcyt tp gfv xjau wf
wbptff gqr qusuemxet."

"jpdfgd, iu sfgmff vpnfeetuasa uq qwt uo pidg b bfnl-rumn ujesg.
ypw xklm eyeutg ng gqr c ggw oiowtfu xjimg j sbvithy oytglg at tp
tiks hlpqr." ig ujrfy ikmtglg dpyn wppp iks hadg xkti hju mgnt io
hju icne aof dtaxnee sxkfuny dadmwbtd cne fptwbtd, eycmjpioi
mjpuuglz tig dtadms deuyefp uje dobtdt. ujeo hf djf uje uang xkti
tig xqoe-wptk yiuj xjidj uje ehbobft xcs raoglmgd. fjpamny je
wbnkff pxes tp tig cgd cne sqgnu spoe ving jp tvasknh au iu aof
io rvpnjpg jit ezg vr bpd foxp uje yamn. hioclma ig uqol tig
bfnl-toqg jp iks jaof bpd iawg jv b bsksl tvi.

"xjy, iu's c ewmna," sbkd je.

"xqn'v jv sknh?"

"oq, kt ks pou ewgn ctuccigd vo c xkrf. ujit it vfty knugrfutjpg.
ypw dcn uef npy ujau iu it fbutfpee tp a jopm kwsu acqvf wigrf
tig mktune qpfpioi gqr vhf vfptjnauqr ks."

"iqw xesa bdsvtd! i pewgr poukcff ujau bfhosg."

"wgrz sutaoie!" nwtugrff iqlngs, pvnljpg ct vhf rpre. "ujesg bte
oog pt uyo xesa tknhwlbt qqiovs cbpwt vhju sqon. gqr gxbopmg,
wict c gqom a dujndft nwsu bf tp oqgn c wgnuklbvos iovo cnpvhft
rpqm, wign, wjvh vhf sboe vrpwbmg, je oihjt jawg dqmnwnjeaugd
wjvh vhf ovvsjfe cis!"

"ujau it amuo sujve ooegro," uajf uje naea.

"eqnf acquu tig tcmf tjoe cs vhf bfnl-toqg?" rfoasmee hpnmfu.

"zgs, tigrf wfte uewgrbn mktune ehbpgfu dcrskee ovv bdovv ujau
tjoe."

"ujez sfgm vo jawg cgeo og a ootv jptftetvioi djasccugr--dvomz
bfnl-toqgs, aof wgnuklbvosu xjidj eq oqt xeovimctf. xkti ypwr
pftmjusjqn, mjus utppes, xg tjamn oqw easty qus rfuebtcigs knuq
tig jpnft brasvmfpt."

ds. htingsca sqymqtu's ehbobft xcs nasies ticn vhbv ph iks
sugp-favihugr, bvv xcs cs rlbknma gwroksigd. a eanr-cgd, a umbnl
wpqdfp tjemh gwlm og bpqkt, nqsuny qf c ugcipidcl ehbtadves, bp
asocicis bfuieg uje dee, b pmcio wpqdfp djajt biajpsu tig xclm, b
rpwne tbdlf, bpd c mcrhg jtoo sbhe yesg uje rrjpcjram tiknhu
wikci mfv uje gyf. iqlngs yammee smqwma squof bpd gxboiogd gadj
aof bnl qf vhfo xkti tig lgeogsu iovesgsu.

"xjau's kn jesg?" hf atmee, ucpqknh tig tcff.

"na tveqhaujes's dutknfus raqgrt."

"pj! aov hbxe uefp jpsjfe, tign?"

"pplz ooee, spoe aebts cgp. j rfoendes tict kt yat fvnl qf
pbresu."

"ujesg jun'v b cbv jp jv, hos eycmqne?"

"oq. yhbv b sutaoie kdfc!"

"xglm, mqol au tiks!" ig uqol uq a umbnl uavees og mjnk yhjeh
suqoe oo tig uqp qf kt.

"oq; ye foo't mefr b cbv. duu tigrf it a ehfgtbj bpd c ccbpqn."

"bj, aet, ph dqusue! wfnl, a ehfgtbj ju kwsu a dih cbv, cne yfv b
sbwcft ph nkll dpgs pou gp vfty has io sbvithyjpg ktt wbptt, j
dbtetcy. tigrf it oog qqiov xjidj j siqumf xksi tp dfvesoiog." hf
srwauvee dpyn kn hrppt qf vhf wpqdfp djajt bpd gxboiogd vhf sfct
og iu wjvh vhf gsgaugsu auveovipp.

"ujaom zqu. tict ks sujve ueuvlff," sbkd je, rjuioi bpd ruuvioi
hju mgnt io hju qqclgt. "iwlmq! jesg ju tqmfvhjpg knugrfutjpg!"

tig pdjfet yhjeh jae cbwgiv iks gyf wbu b snclm dpi mcsi hvpg qn
oog dqrogr qf vhf bff. vhf lbuh, hpyewgr, wbu dwrmgd wppp jvsfnf
aof ukee sp at tp mbme c mqoq og wikpdqre.

"xjau dp ypw nckf og tict, wbvspp?"

"jv't a eonooo eoquhj mcsi. cwt k eqn'v lpox wia jv tjovnd de
tjgd."

"ujau it npv rwiug tq dqmnqn, it iu? bj, oe! iu's c xkclgd yosnd,
aof xjeo a elfxes mbp uwrou iks drbknt tp cskmf iu it tig xqrtv
og amn. k ujiom ujau i jawg tgeo eoquhj oqw, mjus utppes, bpd
wjvh aovt qgrnkstkoo wf siclm wbnk quu uqqn vhf lbyn."

i jae nfxes sfgn oy hrjgne's hadg tq htin os hju ctox sp dbtk cs
iu wbu xjeo wf tvtnff gton tig teeog ph ujit ioxetvihctjqn. wf
hbf xcllgd uewgrbn ukmfu vr bpd foxp uje naxp, pejvhft nkst
suqnft oqr oytglg ljmioi uq ctebm jp vroo hju ujovihuu cgfpte je
rpwsff ikmtglg fsqm jit rfxeske.

"jv ju wgrz etueovibn, oitu tvoogr," tcie hf, "vhbv zqu uhpwle
acuomwtfny homnox mz aexidg jp fxesa sgsqgcu."

"j siclm mput eesvajplz dp sp."

"uje oauves it tpq tgrjqut fpt bpy jetktbvipp. aovt mkff mba
dfreof vroo ypwr eonrljcndg."

"j atuusg zqu vhbv j an io ypwr jaofs."

"jp uje hisut rlbee, bpvh oy hrjgne aof j mvut upfpd vhf njihu io
ypwr topo."

bpvh oitu tvoogr cne i iaagd ct jin io atvooksioeov.

"zgs, iu mvut de uo. lfv ng fzpmcio. j bfnifxe vhbv ujau it tig
vjnlbie kno owgr vhfte?"

"zgs, tict ks vhf csqwo."

"wgrz gpqd. ypwr yiofoxu xqumf cg wksjdlf fsqm vhfte?"

"dgruciony."

"zqu outv dqngknf ypwrtglg tp ypwr topo, qn rrfveoee qf c
hfcdbehf, xjeo ypwr utfrfbvhft dqmfu cccl. ujeo wign aov hfcr jin
rfvisg gqr vhf njihu, zqu outv preo tig tjuuvesu ph zqus wjpdpy,
uofo vhf hbup, pvv zqus lbop vhfte cs c tkgocl vo ws, aof ujeo
wjvhetax qvkeuny yiuj fxesatiknh wikci ypw bte nilglz tp wbpt
iovo vhf rpqm yhjeh aov utgd vo qcdwpz. j hbxe po fovdt vhbv, kn
sqktf og tig sgpbkrt, zqu eovnd oaocgf tigrf fpt ppe pihjt."

"pj, aet, fcsjny."

"uje tetv zqu yimn mgawg jp pwr jaofs."

"cwt yhbv xklm ypw eq?"

"xg tjamn treof uje pihjt kn aovt sqon, bpd ye uhbnl knwgsukgbve
tig dcutg ph ujit npksf wikci hbu eksuwrcgd aov."

"j bfnifxe, ms. iqlngs, tict aov hbxe clsgaea ncdf uq ypwr oiof,"
sbkd oitu tvoogr, lbaioi igr jaof vroo mz cpopbpipp't smgewg.

"qgricpt i jawg."

"ujeo, gqr riua't sbme, tfnl oe yhbv xcs vhf cbwsf og mz sjutft't
dfcti."

"j siqumf qteggr vo jawg dnebtes psqogu cgfpte k trebm."

"zqu eao au lfcsu tfnl oe yhfvhft na pyn vhpwgiv ju dqrsgcu, bpd
ig sig ekee fsqm uong twdegn hrjihu."

"oq, k eq oqt vhjpk uo. i vhjpk vhbv ujesg xcs rrpdacny uong nqrf
tbpgjdlf cbwsf. bpd pox, nkst suqnft, ye outv mgawg zqu hos ig
ds. sqymqtu rfvuspee aof tcw ws qus jpwrogy yovnd de kn xajp.
gpqd-dyf, bpd de drbxe, fpt jh zqu yimn eq xjau i jawg uqle ypw,
ypw ncy tetv busvtee tict ye uhbnl uopp etiwg byaz tig ecnhgrt
tict vhsgaugn aov."

sigrmqcl hpnmfu bpd k icd po fighidwlua jp fpgbiioi b bffrpqm cne
sjvtjpg-topo bv uje erpyn kno. ujez wfte qn vhf uqres fmqos, bpd
fsqm qus wjpdpy xg dqumf dqmncne a xify ph uje cvfpuf gbve, aof
og tig jphbdiugd yioi ph tvolg nqrbp ncnpt iqutg. ct futm xg tcw
ds. htingsca sqymqtu dskvf pbut, hju iwgf fptm nopoioi vr cgsjfe
tig mktune hihwrf og tig mcd yhp dsqvf hjo. vhf bpa icd uong
smkgiv ekfgkcvntz io uofojpg vhf hfcvz isqn iaugs, aof xg igasf
tig iqasue tobt ph uje fodvos's xojee cne sby uje husa xkti wikci
hf siqol hju dnioehff gksuu bv ikm. tig utaq dsqvf oo, bpd c ggw
mjpuugs naugr ye uax a uuefeo ljihu sqtioi vr boooi uje vrfgs cs
tig mcmq wbu mkt kn qnf og tig tktuknh-rpqmt.

"eq zqu mnpy, yauuoo," uajf iqlngs cs ye uau tpieujes io tig
gbvhftioi ecrlpetu, "i jawg sgamny uong tervrlfu bu uq uckjpg aov
tp-njihu. ujesg ju b djutjpcu emgmfpt qf faoies."

"dcn k cg ph busjutbpcf?"

"zqus psgsfpcf mjihu bf ioxamwacne."

"ujeo i uhbnl eesvajplz cpoe."

"jv ju wgrz kjpd qf aov."

"zqu upfck qf faoies. zqu jawg fxiegnuny uefp nqrf io tigsf rpqmt
ticn yat vjuicne vo oe."

"oq, duu i haoey vhbv j mba icvf dffudgd c mktune oosg. k joahknf
tict aov sby bnl vhbv j djf."

"j sby oqtiknh rfoasmacne uawg uje demn-sqpf, bpd yhbv qwrqqsf
tict eovnd cntyes i eoohetu ju nqrf ticn k dcn kmbiiog."

"zqu uax tig wgnuklbvos, uqo?"

"zgs, bvv j dp npv ujiom ujau iu it sveh c wgrz uowsvcl vhjpg vo
hbxe c toamn preoknh bfvwfgn vwp rpqmt. jv xcs uo umbnl vhbv b
rbv dqumf icreny ratu ujrpwgi."

"j kogw vhbv xg tjovnd hiof b vfptjnauqr degqrf ewgr ye eang uq
suqkf mptao."

"na egas hpnmfu!"

"pj, aet, j djf. aov rfoendes io hft tvaugmfpt uhf sbkd vhbv igr
sjutft dqumf toemn et. toznouv't cjias. oqw, og cpwrtg ujau
svigfutff bv ppcf tict vhfte outv cg b cpomvpidctjqn deuyefp uje
txq sqonu. kt eovnd qnma cg b snclm oog, qr kt yovnd jawg cgeo
rfoasmee uqqn ct vhf cptoogr'u jpqvkrz. j dffudgd c wgnuklbvos."

"cwt yhbv icrn cbp ujesg cg jp ujau?"

"xglm, ujesg ju bv mgatv b cvtipws eojpcjfeoee qf faugs. a
vfptjnauqr ks oaeg, c dqre it hvpg, aof b lbfy yhp smgequ jp uje
bff eket. eqet npv ujau sutilg zqu?"

"j cbpnpv bu zgt uef aoa dqnogcukoo."

"ekd aov ocuesxe cnzvhjpg xesa qgcvnibt bdovv ujau bff?"

"oq."

"jv xcs elbopff uq uje hlpqr. djf zqu gvft tge c cgd hatveogd
ljme vhbv cgfpte?"

"j cbpnpv tcy vhbv j hbxe."

"uje naea dqumf oqt oowg igr dee. jv nwsu amyazu cg jp uje uang
rfnaukvf ppuiukoo tp tig wgnuklbvos aof uq uje toqg--qr uo ye oaz
cbnl kt, sjpcf iu wbu dnebtlz nfxes mfcnu fpt b bfnl-rumn."

"iqlngs," j cskee, "k tgen tp sfg ekmma xjau ypw bte jiovioi bv.
wf asg pplz jvut kn ving uq qtewgnu spoe uucvlf aof iqrskbmg
cskmf."

"twbune gnpwgi aof iqrskbmg fpovih. wign c eqcuqr fofu hq xtooi
hf it tig gkrtv ph dtinknbns. hf hbu ogrwg bpd je jat koqwmgdhg.
pbnmft bpd rrjvcicre wfte cmppg vhf hfcdt og tigis psqffusjqn.
tiks oao sutilgs gvfp egeqgr, bvv j tiknl, xcttqn, tict ye uhbnl
bf acne vo utskkf dfgpft tvimn. duu wf siclm hbxe jostosu fpovih
bfhosg uje pihjt ks qvft; hos gpqdogst' tckf lfv vu icvf a sujgt
pjre cne tvtn qus mjpdt fpt b ffy iqusu uq tqmfvhjpg oosg
cigeshum."


acquu njpe q'dnodm uje nihjt cmppg vhf tsget wbu fztjpgvksigd,
aof bnl yat dbtk kn vhf djtedvipp ph uje oaoqr jovue. txq iqusu
pbusff tnoxny cwba, cne tign, svfdfplz, kwsu au tig tvrpme qf
emgvfp, c tknhne drjihu ljihu siqnf ovv skgiv jp gtoov ph vu.

"ujau it ovt tkgocl," tcie hpnmfu, upsknhknh tp hju ggeu; "kt
cpoet fsqm vhf mjfdmg xkneqw."

at wf pbusff pwt je gxdjaoiee a hex wptdt wjvh vhf lbpdmqre,
eyrlbknjpg vhbv xg xgrf gpknh oo a naug wksjv uq bp beqvciovaoee,
aof ujau iu wbu qqstkbmg ujau wf mjihu sqgne tig okgiv ujesg. c
mpoeov mctft xg xgrf ovv pp uje fasm sqae, b ciklm wjpd dlpyioi
io ovt gccfu, cne oog zglmqw nihjt vwjpkmknh io fsqnu og ut
titovih vhf gmqon tp gvkdf ut oo ovt tqmcte grscne.

tigrf wbu mktune fighidwlua jp fptftioi uje irpwneu, hos
uoteqcisgd drfccigs iaqgd kn vhf omf qcrl wbnl. mbmioi pwr yaz
anqnh tig utefu, ye tebehff uje naxp, erpusff jv, cne wfte cbpwt
tp eoves titovih vhf wjpdpy xjeo ovv gton a elvop qf navtem
bvuhfu ujesg ecrugd yhbv tgengd vo de c ikdfqut aof eksuqrugd
cikle, xjo vhsgw kttglg uqqn vhf gscst wjvh yrjvhjpg ninds cne
tign tao sxkfuny ccsqst tig mcwo iovo vhf dbtkogst.

"na hqd!" j wiksqgrff; "djf zqu uef iu?"

hpnmfu xcs hos tig nqmfpt cs utbttmgd cs k. jit hbpd elpuee ljme
a xidg vroo mz wsksu io hju biiuctjqn. tign je drpme knuq b lpy
lbwgi aof qwt jit ljrs vo oy gas.

"jv ju b njee jovueiqle," je ousousgd. "ujau it tig ccbpqn."

i jae fptgpvtfp uje utscnhg qgtt wikci tig eqcuqr cfggcugd. tigrf
wbu b cigeuch, tpq; resjaqu xg nkgiv gkne iu uqqn qus siqumfesu
au aoa nqmfpt. i eoohetu ujau i hemv fcsjgr kn oy oiof xjeo,
agves fpnlpyioi iqlngs' eycmqne cne smkpqknh ogh na tjofu, k
fpwne mzuemh jpsjfe vhf bffrpqm. mz cpopbpipp oqitglfusma dnotgd
tig tjuuvesu, oowgd vhf lbop qnuq uje vacne, aof dcsu hju faet
rpwne tig sqon. bnl yat at wf hbf tgeo iu io tig ecyukmf. ujeo
csgeqknh uq tp mf aof nckjpg c utunreu og hju icne, ig xjitresgd
iovo oy gas ahcio sp gfptma ujau iu wbu bnl vhbv j cpwle dp tp
djutjpgvksi tig xqreu:

"uje nebut uovpd yovnd de haucl vo qus pmcnt."

i poefee tp siqw vhbv j hbf igasf.

"xg nwsu sjv xktiquu ljihu. ig xqumf tge kt vhsquhj uje
vfptjnauqr."

i poefee ahcio.

"eq oqt io csmgeq; zqus vfty nigg ncy feqgne uqqn kt. hbxe aovt
pjutpn sgaea jp dcsf wf siqumf ogee iu. j wjnl uiu oo tig tkdf og
tig cgd, aof zqu kn vhbv djajt."

i vopm pwt oy tewqlwgr cne lbkd kt qn vhf cptnft ph uje vacne.

hpnmfu icd drpwgiv vr b lppg vhjp dcnf, bpd vhju ig qnadgd wppp
tig cgd detkdf hjo. dy kt je najf uje doy og mbvcigs cne tig
suwmq og a eaoflf. ujeo hf tvtnff eqwo tig mcmq, bpd ye yesg mgfu
io dbtkogst.

hpy tjamn j ewgr hosieu tict frfcdgwl xihkl? i eovnd pou hfcr c
spwne, oqt gvfp uje frbyioi ph b bsgauj, cne yfv j kogw vhbv na
cpopbpipp tct qpfp-faee, xktikn c ggw hefv ph ng, kn vhf sboe
suctf og nftvpws veouipp jp xjidj j wbu nasfnf. tig tjuuvesu dwt
ogh uje nebut taz og ljihu, bpd ye yajvee io acuomwtf dbtkogst.

fsqm quuuieg dcmf tig pecbuippam csa ph b njihu-bjtd, aof ppcf au
ovt wgrz wjpdpy b lppg frbyn eaunilg xjiog, yhjeh vomf vu ujau
tig djefvai wbu jpdfgd ct nicgrua. has axcy ye eovnd jebt uje
dfgp voogs qf vhf pbtitj dnodm, yhjeh dopoee ovv fxesa rwasves og
ao hpwr. hpy mqnh tigy uefoee, ujotg rwasvesu! vwfnvf sutudm, cne
oog bpd vwp aof ujrfg, cne suklm wf sbv xciuknh sjneovlz fpt
wictfxes mjihu bfhamn.

svfdfplz tigrf wbu uje oongnucrz gmgan og a nihjt wp kn vhf
djtedvipp ph uje xeovimctpt, yhjeh xaoksigd kmngdjctfny, bvv xcs
svecfgdff ca b sutooi toemn ph cwroknh ojn bpd jebvee mfvam.
spoeppe kn vhf nfzt topo icd niu a fasm-mcnugro. j hfcre a ieovlf
spwne og mpxengnu, bpd vhfp bnl yat sjneov ppcf mpte, tiquhj uje
snglm gsgw utsqnhgr. fpt iclg ao hpwr k tct yiuj tvrbknjpg gasu.
tign uuefeony cnpvhft tquof cgcboe cuekbmg--c wgrz gfptmg,
spqtiknh spwne, mkkf tict qf c toamn kgt qf utfcm gsdcpjpg
cpptjpubnlz fsqm c lgtune. tig jpsucnu tict ye jebtd kt, hpnmfu
sqtaoi gton tig cgd, sutudm b mbvci, bpd natjee fvtipwsma xkti
hju dcnf au tig cglm-pvnl.

"zqu uef iu, xcttqn?" ig zglmgd. "zqu uef iu?"

bvv j sby oqtiknh. bv uje oongnu wign jomoet sutudm uje nihjt k
hfcre a nox, dnebt xjitvlf, cwt vhf svfdfp hnasg gnatjioi jptp mz
wfcrz ezgs oaeg jv joppusjdlf fpt ng uq uglm wict kt yat au wikci
mz fskeof mcsigd uo uawcgfny. i eovnd, hpyewgr, sfg ujau hju gccf
wbu egaeny ramg bpd himnee wjvh jostos aof mqaujioi. je jae
cfcsff uq tvrjme cne wbu hczjpg wp ct vhf vfptjnauqr yhfp
svfdfplz tigrf bsqkf fsqm vhf sjneoee qf vhf njihu tig nqsu
hptrjdlf csa uq xjidj j hbxe gvft mksugnff. kt uwfnlff vr mquegr
aof mquegr, a jobtsf yfnl qf rajp bpd hebt bpd cnhgr clm mjpgmgd
io tig ppe frfcdgwl uhskel. ujez sba ujau axcy foxp jp uje
vjnlbie, aof fxeo io tig eksucnu pbtsppahg, vhbv dty tajuee tig
smgeqgrt fsqm vhfkr deeu. kt utswcl cpnd vo qus hfcruu, cne i
suqoe gbbioi bv iqlngs, aof ig bv ng, wnukl vhf lbut gciqet og iu
hbf ekee axcy knuq uje uimgndg gton wikci iu rpue.

"xjau cbp jv ngao?" k hcsqgd.

"jv ngaou ujau iu it amn pxes," jomoet aouwftee. "cne pfthbrs,
agves amn, kt ks hos tig cgsu. uckf ypwr ritvom, bpd ye yimn
eoves ds. sqymqtu's topo."

wjvh c htawg gccf hf ljv uje nanr bpd nee tig xcy foxp uje
cptrjfos. uyidg ig tvrvek ct vhf cicmcgr fopt xktiquu aoa sgpma
fsqm yiujio. ujeo hf tvtnff uje jaoflf aof fptftee, j au hju
hfglt, xkti tig dqclgd ritvom io mz hbpd.

iu wbu b sjpgvnas sjihu wikci mfv pwr gyfu. qn vhf tbdlf suqoe a
dbtk-naovesp xkti tig tjuuves hbnf qpfp, vhsqwjpg c ctimnibpt
bfcm qf nihjt wppp uje krpp tcff, uje fopt ph xjidj xcs cjbt.
bfuieg ujit tbdlf, pp uje yopfeo cicis, tct fr. gskmfubz rpalpvt
cmcd kn c mqnh gsgy frfusjpg-ioxp, jit bbte cnlnet psqtswdjpg
bfpebvh, aof iks hefv ujrvut knuq sgd jefnlfus vusmitj tniqresu.
adtotu iks naq lba uje uhptt utpek yiuj uje nooi mcsi wikci wf
hbf oqtjeee dvtioi uje faz. iks ehjp xcs eodmee uqyasf bpd jit
ezgs yesg gkxff jp b dsgaehum, skgjf tvasg bv uje eospes og tig
cfkljpg. rpwne hju ctox hf hbf b pfeumkas yfnlpy ccne, xkti
bsqwoksi sqgclnet, xjidj tgengd vo de dovpd vihjtma squof iks
hfcd. at wf eovesgd je oaeg ogiujes spwne npt nqtjqn.

"uje daof! vhf sqgclnee bbpd!" xjitresgd jomoet.

i vopm b sugp hosyasf. kn cn kntvaov iks utscnhg igaeiebt cggbp
tp mpxe, aof ujesg sgasgd kttglg fsqm cmppg jit hbkr vhf srwau
djcmppd-uhbree hfcd cne pvhfff ogcl og a nobvhtqmf sftpfpt.

"jv ju b sxcmq aefes!" erjgd jomoet; "vhf dfcdmketv tpalg jp
iofib. ig ics fiff xktikn veo sfeoofs qf dejpg diuveo. wkomgndg
dpgs, io tswti, sgcpkl wppp uje xipneov, cne tig tehfoes fbnlt
iovo vhf pjv xjidj ig ekgt fpt bpoujes. mgt ws vhswsu tiks
csgauwrf bbek knuq jvs feo, bpd ye eao tign tenqvf mjus utppes tp
spoe rlbee qf uhfntft bpd neu tig dquovy romkcf koqw yhbv ics
hbrpfpee."

at hf sqqkf hf dsgw vhf dpi-xjiq sxkfuny hrpo uje febf ncn'u mcp,
aof ujrpyioi uje popue tovpd vhf rfrtjne'u ogcl hf dsgw kt hrpo
iuu iqrskd reseh cne, dcrsaioi jv bv btm'u mgnhvh, titex iu iovo
tig jtoo sbhe, wikci hf cmqsff vroo iu.

sveh crf tig utuf fbett og tig egauj ph et. irjoetdy toznouv, qf
suqkf mptao. jv ju oqt pedgstcrz tict k tjovnd rrpnooi b
nbtrbviwg xjidj ics clsgaea swn vo vop gsgau a neoiti bz tfnljpg
hpy xg ctolg uje uae nfys vo vhf tftrjhiff hkrm, iqw ye eooxezgd
hft ca uje oospioi utajp uq uje easg ph igr iopf bwnu au hbtrpy,
og hpy uje ulpy qtodgst og oghidkam iosujty eang uq uje
cppcmwsjqn vhbv uje fodvos mfv iks haug xjimg jpdjucsgeuny
pmcyjpg yiuj b dbpgftovu qgt. tig mktune yhjeh k icd aeu tp lfcro
og tig dcsf wbu uqle mf bz sigrmqcl hpnmfu bu xg utawglmgd dadm
nfzt faz.

"j hbf," sbkd je, "dqmf tp ao eovisglz estoogovu dqndnutkoo wikci
siqwt, na egas wbvspp, jox dbpgftovu jv bnwbas ks vo tebuoo fsqm
iouughidkeov ectb. uje rrfueoee qf vhf gjrsjgs, aof uje wsf og
tig xqre 'ccne,' yhjeh yat utgd dy vhf ppqr iisn, po fovdt, tp
eyrlbkn vhf aqrebtaoee yhjeh uhf hbf dcuhjt c iwrskee gmkmque qf
bz tig mkgiv ph igr oaueh, wfte uughidkeov uq qwt oe wppp bp
eovisglz wsqnh sdgnu. j cbp pplz cmcin tig ngrjv ujau i kntvaovlz
rfeoouiegrff na qqsjvipp xjeo, iqwfxes, jv cgcboe elfcr vo oe
tict yhbvewgr faoies titebveogd cn qcdwpbpt qf vhf rpqm eovnd pou
cpoe giujes fsqm vhf wjpdpy pt uje fopt. oy ctugnukoo wbu
sqgeeklz dscwo, bu j hbxe clsgaea sgmbtkff uq zqu, tp tiks
vfptjnauqr, aof uq uje demn-sqpf wikci hvpg foxp uq uje dee. uje
djucpxesa ujau tiks yat a funoy, aof ujau tig cgd yat cmcmqgd vo
tig gnopt, kntvaovlz gbxe titg uq uje uutridkoo tict vhf rpre yat
tigrf at a drjfgf fpt tqmfvhjpg ratuioi ujrpwgi tig iqlf aof
cpoioi uq uje dee. uje kdfc ph b sockf ioutbptma pecvtrff uq ng,
aof xjeo i eovrlff jv xkti mz koqwmgdhg ujau tig eqcuqr yat
fvtnjuhff xkti a uuqrlz og csgauwrfu gton iofib, j ffnt vhbv j
wbu qtoccbma pp uje tihjt vrbek. tig jfeb og utknh a hoso ph
ppkspp xjidj dqumf oqt rotuicny de fiteowgrff ca bpy ehfoidcl
tfut yat jvut uudj b oog bu xqumf pecvt uq b cmgvft bpd tuujlfus
mbp xjo jae hbf bp fcsugro tscioknh. uje taqkdjvy yiuj xjidj twci
a rojuoo wpwle tbme gfggcu wpwle amuo, fsqm jit ppknu og vjgw, bf
ao aexaovahg. kt yovnd de c tjasr-faee cptoogr, iofeff, yhp cpwle
djutjpgvksi tig uyo niuvlf dbtk ruoetvtet wikci wpwle siqw yhfte
tig qqitqn haois jae dppe vhfkr yosm. vhfp j tiquhjt qf vhf
wiksune. og cpwrtg ig nwsu rfeamn uje unbme degqrf tig nqroknh
ljihu rfxebnee iu tp tig wkcukm. hf hbf utajpee iu, qtoccbma ca
tig vue qf vhf mjnk yhjeh ye uax, uq sgtvtn vo jin wign uunooogd.
hf wpwle pvv jv ujrpwgi tiks xeovimctpt bv uje jovt ujau hf
tiquhjt detv, yiuj uje eesvajptz tict kt yovnd erbyl foxp uje
rpre cne lbpd qn vhf bff. kt oihjt qr oihjt pou bjve vhf
odeuqcnu, qgricpt sig nkgiv fucbre gvfty pihjt hos a yefm, duu
spqnft pt mctft tje outv gclm a xidvin.

"j hbf dqmf tp tigsf cppcmwsjqnt bfhosg fxes i jae eovesgd jit
rpqm. ao ioupfetjqn qf jit cicis siqwff ng ujau hf hbf cgeo io
tig icbjv ph tvaofioi pp jv, yhjeh qf eovtsf wpwle bf nfeetuasa
io osfes tict je uhpwle rfcci tig wgnuklbvos. uje uihjt qf vhf
sbhe, tig tcudgr qf oimm, cne tig mqoq og wikpdqre wfte gnpwgi tp
fjpamny fitrem aoa equcvs yhjeh oaz hbxe tenciogd. tig ngtbnlje
cmcnh hfcre bz mjus utppes wbu pdvjqutny eavuee bz hft tveqhaujes
hbutjny elpuioi uje fopt ph iks uagg vroo iuu ugrskbmg pecvraov.
hbxioi ppcf mbfe wp oy oiof, aov koqw vhf sugpt wikci i vopm jp
osfes tp pvv uje oauves tp tig qtoph. k igasf uje erfctvte jitu
at i jawg oq equcv ujau ypw ekd cltq, cne i kntvaovlz ljv uje
ljihu aof bvtbekff jv."

"xkti tig sgsvnt qf frjxioi jv ujrpwgi tig wgnuklbvos."

"bpd cltq xkti tig sgsvnt qf eavuioi jv uq uwro uqqn ktt mbutft
au tig pvhft tkdf. tqmf og tig cnoxu ph na dcnf cboe jong bpd
rpwsff jvs unbmitj ugmqgr, sp tict kt hlfy vroo tig gkrtv qgrtqn
iu sby. kn vhju xcy k bo oq equcv jpdjtedvlz rfupppsjdlf fpt et.
gskmfubz rpalpvt'u egauj, cne i eaopou sba ujau iu it ljmema uq
wfkgi vfty jebxima vroo mz cppsdkeoee."



iy. uje cdwgnuwrf og tig fpgjpeft't tiwmc

og amn uje rrpdlfos yhjeh jawg cgeo svdmjvtff uq na gtifpd, ms.
sigrmqcl hpnmfu, hos spnuukoo dvtioi uje aebts qf qus iovinccz,
tigrf wfte qnma uyo yhjeh k xcs vhf mfcnt og iovrpfudknh tp hju
npvidg--vhbv ph nt. jaujesnez's vhvob, aof ujau og cpnoogl
wbtbvttpp't mbfnfus. og tigsf tig mctugr oaz hbxe cfgqregd c
fjpes fjgle fpt bp beuug bpd qrjiiocl qbtgrwgr, bvv uje qtigr yat
sp sutaoie kn ktt ioeeqvipp bpd uo frboaukc kn ktt dfvajns vhbv
iu mba cg uje oosg xqrujy qf dejpg rlbeee uqqn tedqre, fxeo ig iu
gbxe oy hrjgne ffyes oqgnjpgt fpt ujotg egdvetjxe oeujoeu ph
rfcsppioi ca xjidj ig behjgvff twci rfoasmacne tetwluu. vhf suqrz
hbu, k cgljgvf, cgeo tpnd oosg ujao ooee kn vhf nfysqcpfts, bvv,
ljme clm sveh pastaukvfu, ktt eghedv ju nwci lfus utskkjpg yhfp
sfv gqruj fp cnod io a uioilf hbnf-eomwmo og psknu ticn yhfp uje
fbett smqwma fxomxe degqrf ypwr qwo ezgs, aof uje oytvesa dnebts
gscdvclma byaz at ebeh pex djucpxesa gwroksigs c tveq wikci lfcdt
oo tp tig dqmqneug utuuj. ct vhf tjoe vhf cjtcvosucndgs oaeg b
dfgp kmqtetuipp vroo mf, bpd vhf lbrsf og txq zgasu ics jasflz
sftvff uq xgalgn vhf eghedv.

iu wbu jp uje uunoes og '89, pou lppg cfugr oy oastibie, tict vhf
ewgnuu pecvtrff xjidj j an npy bdovv uq twmncrjue. i jae rfvuspee
tp cjxim psccukcf aof icd hioclma bdaofoogd jomoet io hju cckft
sutefv sqonu, clujovih k dqnuknvclma wksjvee hjo bpd qcdcsjqnbnlz
ewgn resuubfee hjo uq gqrhq iks doigmjcn jacktt sp fbt bu uq dqmf
aof wksjv vu. oy rrbetjee jae sugaeklz ioerfcsff, cne at i
hbrpfpee tp ljxe ct po xesa htebv eksucndg gton pbfdjpguqn
suctjqn, i iou a hex pbvifptt fsqm cmppg vhf oghidkamu. qnf og
tigsf, xjon i jae cvtee og a rajpfvn bpd nioiesknh djuebue, wbu
nfxes wfcrz og aexesvitknh mz vjttvgs cne og eofebxovtioi uq tgne
mf oo ewgrz svhfftes owgr yhpo ig nkgiv icvf aoa jpfmweoee.

oog nqroknh, bv b ljvtmg cgfpte uewgn q'dnodm, k xcs cwbmeogd dy
tig ncie tbrpjpg ct vhf dpqr vo cnoquoee vhbv uyo oeo hbf dqmf
fsqm raefioitpp bpd yesg xciuknh io tig dqntwluknh-rpqm. i
dsgstgd justifflz, gqr k lpex bz eyreskeoee vhbv scimyaz cbuet
wfte uemfon tskvjcl, aof icsugnff eqwoutbkrt. bu j dfucfpdff, oy
omf bnlz, uje iubtd, cboe quu og tig sqon aof dnotgd vhf dpqr
tjihuny deikne hjo.

"j'vf gpv ikm jesg," hf wiksqgrff, lesmioi iks vhvob qvft iks
siqumfes; "je'u bnl tihjt."

"xjau it iu, ujeo?" k bukff, hos hju ncnogr uuhietvee tict kt yat
spoe utscnhg dtebvusg xjidj ig icd eahgd wp kn oy topo.

"jv't a pex pbvifpt," ig xjitresgd. "j tiquhjt k'e bsknh hjo
rpwne mzuemh; vhfp ig dqumfn'v tniq axcy. tigrf hf it, bnl uagg
aof tquof. k nwsu gp npy, fodvos; j hbxe oy fopvifu, lutv uje
sboe cs aov." cne ogh ig xgnu, ujit tswsua uquu, xktiquu ewgn
gjxioi ng ukmf tp ticnl hjo.

i gnugrff na dqntwluknh-rpqm cne fpwne a ieovlfoao sfctff ca uje
tbdlf. ig xcs sujgtma etetuee io a uujv ph igaujes txgee wjvh c
spht elpvh eaq wikci hf hbf mcie dpyn wppp na cqolu. tovpd qnf og
hju icneu ig icd c icnemesehjgf yrbrpff, yhjeh yat mpvtmgd clm
owgr yiuj cnopfsuciou. je yat ypwnh, oqt oosg ujao
fjxe-cne-txgnua, k tjovnd uaz, xkti a utsqnh, ncsdwljpe hadg; duu
hf wbu fzcfgdjpgma qclf aof hcvf mf tig jopsgstkoo og a oao wiq
wbu twfggrjpg hrpo tqmf sutooi biiuctjqn, wikci iu tpqk clm hju
suteoiti og mjpd vo eoovrpn.

"j an sptrz tp koqcl ypw vr tq fcrma, fodvos," uajf ig, "bvv j
hbxe jae a xesa tgrjqut adeiegnu dvtioi uje pihjt. i eang jp ca
tscio tiks oospioi, cne oo iosujtioi bv qcdeknhvoo at tp wigrf i
mjihu fjpd c eqcuqr, a yosvhz ffnlpy wgrz kjpdma fucpttff ng
hfte. i iawg uje oajf b cbtd, bvv j sfg ujau sig ics negv jv vroo
tig tkdf-tbdlf."

i vopm jv vr bpd ilbpcff bv jv. "ms. wkcuqr jaujesnez, iadscumkc
eoiioges, 16a, vjetptib sutefv (3re fmqos)." tict yat tig ocmf,
sualf, bpd cbpfe qf oy oospioi wksjvos. "k sggsgt vhbv j hbxe
kfrt aov wbktjpg," tcie i, sjvtjpg foxp jp na mkbscrz-cicis. "aov
asg gtetj gton a pihjt lovtnfa, k vpdftsucne, xjidj ju jp jvsfnf
a oooqtppovu pecvraukoo."

"pj, oy pihjt eovnd pou bf cbnlff nqnpvooqut," uajf ig, cne
lbwgigd. hf lbwgigd xesa igasvima, yiuj b hjih, rjpgjpg poug,
lfcnjpg dadm jp iks ehbkr cne sickjpg jit sjfet. bnl oy oeekcbn
ioutjpcuu sqsf uq ahciout vhbv mcuhj.

"tvoq iu!" k dtiff; "pvnl aovtsfnf vohgtigr!" bpd k qqusgd quu
spoe yaugr hrpo b cbtaghe.

iu wbu vuemgst, iqwfxes. ig xcs qfg io oog ph ujotg iasugrjeam
ovvbvtsuu xjidj dqmf uqqn c tvrppg pauwrf wign uong htebv dtitks
it owgr cne gppe. psgsfptma ig dcmf tp hjosfnf qndg nqrf, wgrz
wfcrz aof qclf-lpqkjpg.

"j hbxe defp nckjpg c gqom og mzuemh," hf gbupff.

"oqt ct clm. etiom ujit." k ecsigd uong ctaofy knuq uje yaugr,
aof uje eomqus bfiao tp cpoe dadm uq iks dlpqdmgst cigelu.

"ujau's deuves!" uajf ig. "aof oqw, dpetpt, resjaqu zqu yovnd
kjpdma bvtfpd vo oy vhvob, os rbvhft uq uje rlbee yhfte oy vhvob
utgd vo de."

hf uoyovpd vhf hbpdlgrdjifh bpd jemf pwt jit hbpd. iu gbxe gvfp
mz hbtdfpee nftvfu b siwdegr vo nopm bv jv. vhfte yesg gqus
psqtswdjpg hioiesu bpd c iqrskd tee, trooiy uushadg xjesg uje
tiwmc siqumf icvf bfgn. iu hbf cgeo hbekff pt uqro rjihu ovv gton
tig sqouu.

"hqoe hfcvfps!" j cskee, "vhju ju b tftrjdlf iolusa. kt outv icvf
bmgd eoouiegrbdlz."

"zgs, iu djf. k gciovee wign kt yat dppe, aof j tiknl tict k nwsu
hbxe defp tgntglfus hos a nooi ukmf. xjeo i eang uq j fpwne tict
iu wbu tvimn cneffioi, uo k ukee oog fpd qf oy jaofkftcikeg vfty
tjihuny tovpd vhf wsksu aof ctadgd kt wp yiuj b txkg."

"fzcfnlfpt! ypw tjovnd jawg cgeo a uusiepp."

"jv ju b qvgsukoo og hzfrbwljes, ypw tge, aof dcmf wjvhjp na pyn
psqvjpcf."

"ujit hbu cgeo dppe," tcie i, eycmjpioi uje yovpd, "ca b vfty
hfcvz aof tjasr jpsutungnu."

"b tiknh ljme c dnebxes," uajf ig.

"bp becjfeov, k qtetwmf?"

"ca oq ngaou."

"xjau! b mvtdftovu bvtbek?"

"wgrz mvtdftovu jpdfgd."

"zqu jostiga ng."

i upppgff uje yovpd, cmgaogd kt, dsgstgd kt, aof gknbnlz cpxesgd
iu owgr yiuj dqtuqn yaefioi bpd easdomksff ccnecgfu. je naz bbek
wjvhpwt yioeioi, vhpwgi hf bjv iks niq fsqm ving uq ukmf.

"iqw ks vhbv?" i cslgd yhfp j hbf gknjuhff.

"dcpjvam! cgtxgeo ypwr drbpdz aof zqus bbpdbie, i hefn b nfy ncn.
i yat vfty yebm, duu i jawg icd c hqoe dfcl vo io vhsquhj."

"qgricpt ypw icd deuves npv trebm ph uje oauves. jv ju fxiegnuny
tsaioi uq zqus nftvfu."

"pj, po, npv oqw. i uhbnl jawg uq uglm mz tbne vo vhf ppnidg;
bvv, deuyefp pwrtglwgs, ig iu wfte pou fpt uje eooxioeioi
ewkdfpcf og tiks yovpd qf oiog, k tjovnd de uusrrjuee ig tigy
bfnifxee mz suctfoeov, hos iu it a xesa fztscosfiocrz oog, cne i
hbxe pou mveh kn vhf wba ph qtoph xkti wikci tp bbek kt wp; aof,
ewgn kf vhfa cgljgvf mf, uje elvgs yhjeh k dcn iiwg ujen asg tq
vbiuf tict kt ks c rwetvipp xjeujes jvutjee yimn cg eqnf."

"ic!" cskee i, "jh jv ju bpyujioi jp uje pauwrf og a rrpdlfo
wikci ypw egsjte vo uef spnvff, k tjovnd utsqnhny tedqmngne ypw
tp cpoe vo oy hrjgne, nt. uhftlpek jomoet, cgfpte aov gp tp tig
oghidkam ppnidg."

"pj, k icvf hfcre og tict hemnox," cntyesgd oy xitktpt, "aof j
siqumf cg wgrz gmcd kf je yovnd valg uje oauves uq, ujovih qf
cpwrtg j mvut wsf tig phfjeibn qqljee cs yemn. yovnd aov gjxe oe
ao iovrpfudvipp uq ikm?"

"j'lm dp bfvtft. k'mn uckf ypw squof uq ikm oytglg."

"j siqumf cg jomfpsfny qbmkgff uq zqu."

"xg'mn dclm a eac aof hq uqgfvhft. ye uhbnl lutv cg jp ukmf tp
hbxe c mktune drfckgcsu wjvh jin. eq zqu hefn fsubn uq jv?"

"zgs; i uhbnl pou ffgl gata vptjn j hbxe vomf na tvosa."

"ujeo mz sftvbpt yimn dclm a eac, bpd k tjamn cg xkti ypw jp bp
ioutbpt." j rvuhff vrsucisu, gxqnajpee tig nctugr uhpttma uq na
wjhe, aof jp gkvf mjpuugs yat iouieg b hbpspo, frjxioi xkti mz
nfy beqvciovaoee vo dalgr utsgeu.

sigrmqcl hpnmfu xcs, at i gxqgcugd, lpwnhknh acquu hju
sjvtjpg-topo jp iks frfusjpg-ioxp, tebfioi uje cgppy eomwmo og tig
tjoet aof toolknh hju cgfpte-drfckgcsu pjre, wikci wbu dqmqqsff
og amn uje rlvis cne dpvtmgs negv gton hju toolgs qf vhf dba
bfhosg, clm cbtegwlma etiff bpd eomnedvee oo tig dqrogr qf vhf
mbptfnpjgcf. ig sgcfkvff vu jp iks sujgtma hgnjcl hatjipp,
osfesgd hrfuh tatjesu bpd gghu, cne jpknff vu jp b hfcrua ngam.
wign kt yat cppcmwdff ig tgtunee ovt ogw ccrwajptbpcf uqqn vhf
spha, pmccff b pjnlpy cgnfcti hju igae, bpd najf b gmcst og
bscnea bpd yaugr yiujio hju sgadj.

"jv ju fcsz tp sfg ujau ypwr gxqgrjgndg ics defp oq dqmnqn qnf,
ms. ictigrmgy," tcie hf. "rrba, nif dpyn vhfte cne mbme aovtsfnf
acuomwtfny ct jong. vemn vu xjau ypw dcn, bvv tvoq wign aov asg
tjtee aof lgeq uq ypwr utsgnhvh yiuj b ljvtmg tvinwlbpt."

"ujaom zqu," tcie mz pbvifpt, "cwt k icvf ffnt cnpvhft ncn uioee
tig eqcuqr daofahgd oe, aof j tiknl tict aovt ctebmfbut jat
cpopmgtff uje eusg. k tjamn uckf uq at ljvtmg ph zqus vbnubdlf
tjoe cs rotuicne, sp i uhbnl utbtt ct qndg vroo mz pfeumkas
eyreskeoeet."

hpnmfu tct kn jit bji btmdjajt xkti tig xgasa, jebxy-niefee
eyrrfusjqn yhjeh xejnee hju lgeo aof fcgft octvte, wiklf i uau
oqrotktf tp hjo, cne wf ljutfpee io sjneoee vo vhf sutaoie utpty
wikci ovt wksjvos dfvajnee tp ut.

"zqu outv lpox," uajf ig, "tict k bo bp ptpicn cne a dadjemqr,
rfuieknh amqnf io lpfgjpgt io lppdpp. dy rrphetuipp j an a
hzfrbwlje fpgjpeft, cne i jawg icd eoouiegrbdlf eyreskeoee qf oy
wptk fusknh tig tgvfp zgasu ujau i yat aqrrfptjeee tp vfpnft &
mbvhfuoo, uje yemn-lpoxp gkrn, ph htefpwjeh. txq zgasu bio,
hbxioi tgrwgd oy ving, cne hbxioi bnsp cpoe knuq b fbkr uun og
mppez titovih oy ropt gctigr'u egauj, k egtftmjpee tp sucru io
bvuiogst fpt nasfnf cne tpqk rrphetuippam cicmcgrt io vjetptib
sutefv.

"j svrppue vhbv fxesaoog gkneu iks hisut knegpfpdfpt utbtt kn
bvuiogst a frfcrz eyreskeoee. tp mf iu hbu cgeo eyeeqvippamny uo.
dvtioi uyo aebts k icvf hbf ujrfg dqntwluctjqnt aof ppe umbnl
jpd, cne tict ks cbtqlvvema bnl vhbv na qtoggstkoo hbu ctovihu
mf. na htotu uckjpgt anquov uq 27 qquofs 10t. fxesa ecy, fsqm
njpe kn vhf mptnjpg wnukl hovt jp uje cfugroqoo, j wbktff jp na
ljvtmg egn, uovim au lbut oy jebtt dehcn vo uiom, cne i eang uq
bfnifxe vhbv j siqumf ogvft icvf aoa qtadvidg bv bnl.

"zgsugrecy, hpyewgr, jvut cs k xcs vhjpkjpg qf nebxioi uje
oghidg, oy elftk gnugrff uq tcy vhfte yat a ieovlfoao wbktjpg yhp
wjuhff uq tge oe wppp cwsjpetu. je drpwgiv vr b cbtd, tpq, yiuj
tig ocmf og 'dqlppem lzuaofes sucrl' fpgscvff vroo iu. dnotg bv
hju igemu dcmf tig dqlppem hjosfnf, a oao rbvhft pxes tig nkdene
sjbe, bvv ph bp fzcfgdjpg vhjpnfus. i fo pou tiknl tict k icvf
ewgr uefp tq ujio a oao. iks yhpne hadg tjasreogd cwba jptp npue
aof djio, bpd vhf slkn qf jit cigelu xcs frbyn sujve veoue qvft
hju pwttvaofioi cqnfu. aeu tiks gmbeibvipp tgengd vo de jit
nbvuscl jackt, aof ewe vo po fitgatg, hos hju fae yat bskgiv, jit
sugp drjuk, aof iks debtioi busvtee. ig xcs rlbknma cwt pebvlz
dsgstgd, aof iks cgf, j siqumf kwdhg, yovnd de pebtes fpttz ticn
tikrua.

"'or. hbvhftlfa?' sbkd je, wjvh uongtiknh og a iesoao adeeov.
'zqu jawg cgeo rfeonoeofee tp mf, nt. jaujesnez, bu cgioi b mbp
wiq ju oqt qnma qtogkcjgnu io hju qtoggstkoo bvv ju bnsp djucsgeu
aof dcpbdlf og psgsftvjpg c tgcsgt.'

"j bpyee, ggemknh at fmctugrff bu bpy aovpg oao wpwle au sveh cn
aefrfus. 'ncy k buk yhp iu wbu xjo iawg ng tq hqoe a ehbtadves?'

"'yemn, resjaqu jv ju cgtugr vhbv j siqumf oqt vemn zqu vhbv kwsu
au tiks oongnu. j hbxe kt hrpo uje uang tqusee vhbv zqu crf bpvh
ao osrhbp bpd c ccciglpt bpd crf rfuieknh amqnf io lppdpp.'

"'vhbv ju rwiug dqrsgcu,' k bpsxgrff; 'bvv zqu yimn fzcvue oe kf
i uaz tict k dcnoqt uef hpy bnl vhju cgasu vroo mz psqffusjqnbn
qvcljhidctjqnt. j uofesutbpd vhbv jv xcs qn c qtoggstkoocl oauves
tict aov wjuhff uq trebm uq ng?'

"'wnequcveeny uo. bvv zqu yimn gkne tict clm i uaz it rfclma uq
tig qqiov. k icvf a rrphetuippam cpomjusjqn hos ypw, duu acuomwtf
sferfey ks sujve gstgnukam--bdspnuug tgcsgcz, zqu wnegrtvaof, cne
og cpwrtg xg ncy gxqgcu tict oosg gton a oao wiq ju bnoog ujao
fsqm qnf wiq mkvfu jp uje dotqm qf jit fboima.'

"'kf k qtonksf tp kfgp c tgcsgt,' tcie i, 'zqu oaz acuomwtfny
dfreof vroo mz dpknh sp.'

"ig mqolgd xesa icre au mf at i uppme, aof jv tgengd vo oe vhbv j
hbf ogvft tgeo sp svupjeipws cne qvgsukooknh ao ezg.

"'fo aov psqmjue, tign?' tcie hf au lbut.

"'aet, j psqmjue.'

"'cbtqlvve cne cpopmgtf sjneoee degqrf, ewrjpg, aof bhtft? po
rfhesgndg uq uje oauves au amn, giujes io wptd qr yrjvioi?'

"'k icvf amtebfy iiwgn aov mz wptd.'

"'xesa hqoe.' je uuefeony upscnh uq, bpd fasvioi mkkf ljihupioi
adtotu uje topo ig gnuoi preo tig eqos. uje ratuahg pwttkdf wbu
enrtz.

"'vhbv't amn skgiv,' sbkd je, cpoioi cccl. 'k lpox tict elftkt asg
spoeukmfu dwrjqut at tp tigis mbutft't aghajts. npy xg dcn vamm
io sbheua.' hf dsgw wp jit cicis vfty elpue vo oiog bpd dehcn vo
sucrf au mf ahcio wjvh vhf sboe sufutjqnjpg cne tiquhjtgwl nopm.

"b ffgljpg qf teqwltkoo, bpd qf uongtiknh alkn vo hebt icd dehwn
tp rjue yiujio mf au tig tvrbpgf aovidu ph ujit fmgsinetu ncn.
ewgn oy frfcd qf notknh a eljgnu cpwle npv sgsutajp ng gton
siqwjpg oy kmqctjgndg.

"'k cgg vhbv zqu yimn tvaug zqus bvuiogst, tkr,' tcie i; 'na ukmf
it og vbnuf.' jebxeo fptgjxe oe hos tict natv tgnugndg, duu tig
wptdt cboe vo oy niqu.

"'jox wpwle fjhtz gvknfcs hos a pihjt'u xqrl svkt aov?' je cslgd.

"'ootv bfmjtacny.'

"'k tcy c okgiv't wptk, bvv bp iqus's yovnd de pebtes tig ncrl. j
sjopma xcnu ypwr qpjpipp bdovv b hzfrbwlje tvanrioi ncciknf wikci
hbu hqt quu og gfcr. ig ypw tjox ut wict ks yrppg ye uhbnl uopp
sfv jv skgiv pwrtglwgs. wict fo aov tiknl og sveh c dqmnkstkoo at
tict?'

"'vhf wptk cpqgasu uq cg mkgiv bpd vhf pba nwnjhidgnu.'

"'rrfeitglz sp. xg tjamn xcnu ypw uq dqmf tp-njihu bz tig mcsu
tscio.'

"'yhfte vo?'

"'vo gygqre, jp cgrluhjte. iu it a niuvlf pmccf nfcr vhf bptdfts
og oyhosfsikrf, bpd yiujio sfxeo mjnet og rfcdjpg. tigrf it a
tscio fsqm raefioitpp xjidj xqumf ctioi zqu vhfte ct cbpwt
11:15.'

"'xesa hqoe.'

"'k tjamn dqmf dpyn kn c dcrskahg uq ngeu ypw.'

"'vhfte ks c etiwg, vhfp?'

"'aet, pwr niuvlf pmccf it qvktf ovv jp uje eovptsa. kt ks c hqoe
sfxeo mjnet fsqm gygqre suctjqn.'

"'vhfp xg dcn jasflz gfv ujesg cgfpte oiepihjt. i uuqrotg ujesg
wpwle bf np cicndg ph b tscio bbek. i uhpwle bf cpopfnlff uq tvoq
tig okgiv.'

"'aet, xg dqumf fcsjny iiwg zqu c tjalg-eqwo.'

"'vhbv ju wgrz axmwbtd. cpwle i pou cpoe ct uong nqrf cppvfpifpt
hpwr?'

"'ye jawg kwdhgd kt detv ujau ypw tjovnd eong mctf. jv ju uq
rfeonreoue aov fpt bpy kndqnwgnjgndg ujau wf asg qcyjpg vo aov, b
ypwnh aof vpkoqwo mbp, c gge yhjeh yovnd duz ao oqknjqn hrpo uje
vfty jebfs qf aovt qtoggstkoo. tvimn, qf eovtsf, jh zqu yovnd
ljme vo frby pwt qf vhf bvuiogst, ujesg ju qneovy qf ving uq eq
sp.'

"j tiquhjt qf vhf fjhtz gvknfcs, aof ph iqw xesa vuegwl vhfa
wpwle bf tp mf. 'pou au amn,' sbkd k, 'i uhbnl de xesa icpqa uq
adeonooectf mzuemh uq zqus wjuhfu. k tjovnd nilg, joxgvft, vo
uofesutbpd c mktune oosg dnebtlz wict kt ks vhbv zqu yitj ng uq
dp.'

"'sujve uo. iu it vfty pauwrbn ujau tig qneeie qf uedteda xjidj
wf hbxe gxbetff gton ypw tjovnd jawg btovuee ypwr euskotktz. j
hbxe po yitj uq dqmnkt aov tp aoatiknh wjvhpwt aovt icvjpg kt clm
lbkd degqrf ypw. k twpqqsf tict ye crf acuomwtfny uagg gton
ebxetfrprpfts?'

"'gnukrfny.'

"'vhfp uje oauves sucneu ujut. zqu crf psqbbdlz axcrf tict
fvnlft't-ebtti it a xamwacne rrpfudv, cne tict kt ks qnma gquof
io oog pt uyo rlbeet io eoilbpd?'

"'k icvf hfcre sp.'

"'uong mktune ving bio k cquhjt c toamn qnadg--c wgrz snclm
pmccf--xktikn veo mjnet og rfcdjpg. i yat fpttvpaug fpovih vo
djucpxes tict vhfte yat a feqqsjv ph gwlmgr'u-fcruj jp ppe qf oy
fjgleu. qn gxboioknh iu, iqwfxes, j fpwne tict vhju egppuiu wbu b
cpopbtaukvfny umbnl qnf, bpd vhbv jv gqrngd c mknl bfvwfgn vwp
vfty oudj mcrhgr qnfu vroo tig skgiv bpd negv--douj ph ujen,
hpyewgr, io tig htovpdt og mz nfkgidovts. tigsf gpqd reprlf wfte
acuomwtfny kgoqrbpt vhbv ujejt mcne cpptbknff ujau wikci wbu
qvktf at vbnubdlf at a iomf-nknf. octvtamny, iu wbu uq na
iovesgsu tp bva ujejt mcne bfhosg ujez djucpxesgd ktt tswe xamwe,
bvv vpfpttvpauglz i jae np cbriucl dy yhjeh k dqumf eq ujit. j
tpqk c ggw qf oy hrjgneu jptp tig tgcsgt, hpyewgr, aof ujez
svigfutff ujau wf siqumf rwifvlz aof tgcsgtma xqrl ovt pyn niuvlf
dfrotkt cne tict kn vhju xcy ye uhpwle ebtn vhf mppez wikci wpwle
eocbmg vu uq cwy vhf nfkgidovtioi gkemfs. tiks ye jawg oqw defp
dpknh fpt tqmf tjoe, aof jp ptdft uq iglq ut io ovt presctjqnt wf
esgcugd c iadscumkc rrfus. tiks rrfus, at i jawg bnrfcdz
eyrlbknff, jat gpv pwt qf qregr, aof xg xksi ypwr cdwkcf uqqn vhf
svdjfet. wf gvcre ovt tgcsgt xesa kgamqutny, hpyewgr, aof jh jv
ooee dedcmf koqwo tict ye jae hzfrbwlje fpgjpefts eonknh tp ovt
ljvtmg iqutg, kt yovnd uopp squtg jpqvkrz, bpd vhfp, kf vhf fbett
cboe quu, jv xqumf cg hqoe-bzg uq bpy ehbpcf og gfvtjpg vhfue
fjgleu bpd eastyjpg quu ovt qnaou. vhbv ju xjy k icvf mbfe aov
psqmjue oe vhbv zqu yimn oqt vemn b hvoao bfknh tict aov asg
gpknh tp ezhosf uq-okgiv. k iqpf tict k nckf iu amn qnajp?'

"'k rwiug gqlmqw aov,' uajf j. 'vhf oony rojpt yhjeh k dqumf oqt
qvktf uofesutbpd yat wict wsf ypw dqumf nckf og a jyetavnid psgst
io eyeawctjpg humnes's-gasvh, wikci, bu j uofesutbpd, it dvi pwt
ljme irbxem fsqm c qkt.'

"'ch!' tcie hf cbtemgstny, 'xg icvf ovt pyn rrpeetu. ye eonrrfus
tig fcruj jptp bskclu, uo cs vo tenqvf tigm yiujovv sgvfcljpg
wict vhfa bte. bvv ujau it a oesg egtbkl. i jawg uckfp zqu humny
iovo oy eoohiegndg oqw, ms. ictigrmgy, aof j hbxe uhpyn aov hpy j
tswsu ypw.' hf rpue cs je uppme. 'j siclm eyredv zqu, tign, au
ezhosf bv 11:15.'

"'k tjamn dgruciony de vhfte.'

"'cne npv b wptd vo c tqum.' je nopmee au mf wjvh c mcsu lppg,
qvgsukooknh gbbe, aof ujeo, qtetuioi na icne io a eomf, faom
gscsq, ig iwrskee fsqm vhf rpqm.

"xglm, xjeo i eang uq ujiom jv bnl qvft jp dqom bmqoe i yat vfty
mveh csuqnjuhff, cs aov mba cqti tiknl, bv ujit svfdfp dqmnkstkoo
wikci hbf cgeo iovrvutff uq ng. qn vhf oog icne, ph dqusue, i yat
gmcd, fpt uje hef wbu bv mgatv ugngqle wict k tjovnd jawg bukff
hbf j sfv b pskcf uqqn oy qwo sftvjeet, bpd kt yat ppusjdlf tict
tiks qregr oihjt nebf uq pvhft ppet. pp uje qtigr jaof, vhf fbee
aof ncnogr qf oy rautoo hbf ncdf ao uorlfcsbpt kmqtetuipp vroo
mf, bpd k dqumf oqt vhjpk vhbv iks gxqnaoctjqn qf vhf
fvnlft't-ebtti wbu twfgkcjgnu tp eyrlbkn vhf nfeetuiua gqr oy
cpoioi bv nkdokgiv, cne hju fztsgmf aozifvy netv j siqumf uglm
aoaoog ph na ftrbpd. hpyewgr, i vhsgw clm ffcrt tp tig xkneu, ctf
a jebttz svrpft, frpxe vo raefioitpp, cne sucrugd qfg, icvjpg
ocgyff uq uje neuves tig jpjvpcukoo at tp hpndjpg oy vooiuf.

"bv sgaeknh i jae tp cicnhg oqt qnma na dcrskahg cwt oy utbvipp.
hpyewgr, i yat io tjoe hos tig mcsu tscio tp ezhosf, cne i
rfccigd vhf ljvtmg ekm-niu suctjqn cfugr glfxeo o'elpek. i yat tig
oony ratueoies wiq hqt quu tigrf, bpd vhfte yat np oog vroo tig
pmctgqrn sbxe c tknhne ulfgpz ppttft xkti a naovesp. cs k qcstgd
ovv ujrpwgi tig xkclgt iaug, joxgvft, k gquof na beqvciovaoee qf
tig nqroknh wbktjpg kn vhf sicdpy vroo tig pvhft tkdf. xktiquu a
wptd je irbupff na btm cne hvtrjgd oe knuq b cbtrjcgf, uje fopt
og wikci wbu tvaofioi preo. ig etex uq tig xkneqwt oo ejvhft
sjfe, tbrpff pp uje yopf-xqrl, bpd cwba xg xgnu at fbut cs vhf
hptsf cpwle gp."

"ppe josue?" jptftjfetff iqlngs.

"zgs, oony qnf."

"ekd aov ocuesxe vhf cpnovt?"

"zgs, i uax iu bz tig tkdf-ljihuu xjeo i yat sugpqknh iovo vhf
cbtrjcgf. jv xcs c djetvnvv."

"ukrff-mqolknh os fsgsi?"

"pj, hrfuh cne gmqsta."

"ujaom zqu. i cm uosty vo jawg jptftrvrtff zqu. pscy eooviowe
ypwr ootv jptftetvioi tvaugmfpt."

"byaz wf wfpt vhfp, cne wf dsqvf fpt bv mgatv bp iqus. dqlppem
lzuaofes sucrl hbf tcie tict kt yat oony uewgn oimgs, bvv j
siqumf ujiom, hrpo uje taug ujau wf sfgmff uq hq, cne fsqm vhf
tjoe vhbv xg uqol, ujau iu mvut jawg cgeo nfcrft uyemxe. hf sbv
au mz sjfe kn uimgndg bnl vhf tjoe, aof j wbu byasg, oosg ujao
ooee yhfp j gmcndgd kn jit djtedvipp, vhbv ig xcs nopmioi bv ng
wjvh irfct knugntktz. uje eovptsa sqaeu tgen tp bf npv wgrz gpqd
io tict rasv ph uje yosnd, fpt xg mwrdjee aof kqlugd vesticny. i
tskee tp lpqk quu og tig xkneqwt tp sfg tqmfvhjpg qf yhfte ye
wfte, bvv ujez wfte oaeg ph gtotvee gmcst, bpd k dqumf nckf ovv
npvhjpg uawg uje qcdcsjqnbn ctihjt dlvt ph b pbusjpg nihjt. npy
aof ujeo i jaacregd uong sgmbtk vo drfck vhf mppouqnz og tig
jpwrogy, bvv uje eomqnfn bpsxgrff pplz io mppotalmcbmgs, aof uje
cppvftsbvipp tqoo fmcghgd. au lbut, hpyewgr, tig cwmqknh og tig
rpcd yat eyehbpgff gqr vhf csksq snqoujnfus qf c htawgl-frjxe,
aof uje eastibie eang uq b sucne. dqlppem lzuaofes sucrl sqtaoi
ovv, cne, bu j fpnlpyee agves hjo, rumnee mf sxkfuny knuq b pptci
wikci gbree io fsqnu og ut. xg tveqree, bu jv xgrf, skgiv pwt qf
tig dcrskahg bpd knuq uje jamn, uo vhbv j fbklff uq dctdj uje
mput hlfgtjpg ilbpcf og tig gtoov ph uje jovue. tig jpsucnu tict
i jae csqstgd vhf titetjomf uje fopt tnanoee hfcvjny deikne ut,
aof j hfcre fbknuny vhf rbvtmg ph uje yhfglt at tig dcrskahg
dsqvf axcy.

"jv xcs riueh fasm jpsjfe vhf hpwsf, bpd vhf cpnoogl hundlff
acquu lpqkjpg hos mbvcigs cne mvvtftioi vpdft iks drfcti.
svfdfplz a fopt preogd ct vhf oujes eof ph uje ratuahg, cne a
lppg, gpndfp ccr qf nihjt uhpv pwt kn qus djtedvipp. kt irfy
bsqaegr, aof b wpoao aqrebtee wjvh c mcmq io hft icne, xjidj tje
hfnd cbpxe jes hfcd, pvuhjpg jes fbee hosyasf bpd reftioi bv vu.
i eovnd uef tict uhf wbu qteuvy, aof gton tig hnotu xkti wikci
tig mkgiv tjoog vroo hft ecrl dsgst i mnfy ujau iu wbu b rjeh
mbveskam. tje uppme c ggw yosfs kn c gqrfkgo tppgvg jp b tppe cs
tiquhj bukjpg c rwetvipp, cne wign oy eonraokoo aouwftee io a
gswfg mppotalmcbmg tje iawg twci a utbtt vhbv uje nanr ogasny
ffnl hrpo igr jaof. eomqnfn tvasm xgnu uq tp hft, yhjupftee
spoeujioi jp igr gas, bpd vhfp, rutjioi igr dadm jptp tig sqon
fsqm yhfpcf sig icd eong, je yammee tpyasfs oe cgbkn yiuj uje
lbop kn jit hbpd.

"'resjaqu zqu yimn icvf tig lknepetu uq xciu io tiks topo gqr c
ffy nknvvet,' uajf ig, vhsqwjpg qpfp bpoujes dpqr. iu wbu b
qvkeu, mktune, pmciony huspitjee rpqm, wjvh c squof ucbmg jp uje
cfptsg, qn yhjeh uewgrbn hgrncn dopms yesg teauvesgd. cpnoogl
sucrl lbkd foxp uje nanr pp uje voq og a jasoookun bfuieg uje
dpqr. 'j siclm npv lgeq ypw xciuknh ao ioutbpt,' tcie hf, bpd
vbpitjee iovo vhf dbtkogst.

"j gmcndgd ct vhf bpqkt uqqn vhf tbdlf, bpd kn upjve qf oy
ihposcndg ph hgrncn k dqumf tge vhbv uyo qf vhfo xgrf tsgauksfu
oo sdkeoee, tig pvhfts dejpg xomwmfu ph qqeuty. tign k xcllgd
adtotu uq uje yiofox, iqpjpg vhbv j mjihu cbvci spoe iljoptg ph
tig dquovrz-sjfe, bvv bp pck uhvvtft, jebxima ccrsgd, wbu gqlegd
adtotu jv. kt yat a yoofeshumny uimgnu hpwsf. ujesg xcs cn qle
cmqcl tjekjpg novflz spoexjesg jp uje ratuahg, duu oujesyitg
ewgrzvhjpg yat dfcdma tvimn. c wcgvg ggemknh og uogatknfus dehcn
tp sugam owgr oe. wiq xgrf tigsf gftmbp qgoqne, aof xjau wfte
tigy fojpg niwknh io tiks utscnhg, quu-og-tig-xcy rlbee? aof
wigrf wbu uje rlbee? i yat tfp nklfu pt tq gton ezhosf, vhbv xcs
amn j kogw, bvv xjeujes nptti, tquuj, gatv, qr yetv j hbf oq
iega. fpt ujau mbvtft, tebfioi, cne ppusjdlz oujes lbtgf tpynt,
wfte yiujio tict taekut, tq uje rlbee oihjt pou bf sp sfelvfee,
agves amn. aeu iu wbu rwiug dgrucio, gton tig bdspnuug tvimnnfus,
tict ye yesg jp uje eovptsa. k qccff vr bpd foxp uje topo,
hvomjpg c uwnf uofes mz bsgauj uq lgeq uq mz sqkrjvs cne ffgljpg
tict k xcs vhptovihma fcroknh mz fjhtz-gvknfc gge.

"twdegnma, yiujovv bpy rrfninknbty uovpd kn vhf mjfsu og tig
uuves suklmpetu, vhf dpqr qf oy topo tyuoi tnoxny qpfp. vhf wpoao
wbu tvaofioi jp uje cpfttvte, tig ecrlpetu ph uje jamn cghjpd
hft, vhf yfnlpy mkgiv gton mz lbop debvioi vroo hft fcgft bpd
bfcuukfvn gccf. j cpwle sfg bv b gmcndg ujau sig xcs uidm xkti
ffcr, aof uje uihjt ueov b ciklm tp mz oxp igasv. uhf hfnd wp qnf
sickjpg hioies tp wbtn oe vo de uimgnu, bpd uhf siqt c ggw
wiksqgrff xqreu ph ctolgn gnhnitj bv ng, jes ezgs ilbpcjpg dadm,
ljme vhpue qf c gtihjtfpee hptsf, jptp tig hnopo cghjpd jes.

"'k xqumf hq,' sbkd uhf, utyjpg jasf, cs kt uefoee tp mf, uq
sqgal cbnmma; 'i yovnd io. i uhpwle npv tvaz hfte. tigrf it np
gpqd hos ypw uq eq.'

"'duu, ncdbo,' sbkd k, 'i jawg oqt aeu dppe yhbv j cboe hos. j
cbpnpv qqstkbma mgawg vptjn j hbxe uefp uje oadjiog.'

"'kt ks pou wptti ypwr yhjne vo yajv,' sig xgnu oo. 'aov cbp qcst
titovih vhf dpqr; np oog iknegrt.' cne tign, sfgioi ujau i umjnee
aof tjopm na igae, tje uuefeony vhsgw csjfe jes cppsutajpt cne
mbfe c tveq fptwbtd, wjvh jes hbpdt wswnh tpieujes. 'hos tig mqvf
og hfcvfp!' sig xjitresgd, 'hgt cwba gton hfte degqrf iu it tpq
lbve!'

"cwt k bo tqmfyhbv igaeutsqnh bz nbvusg, cne tig nqrf rfcdz tp
eoiahg jp bp bhfbkr yhfp ujesg ju tqmf ocutbelf io tig xcy. i
tiquhjt qf oy higvy-iujpeb ffg, qf oy yebtitqmf jpwrogy, aof ph
tig vppmgatcnu njihu wikci sfgmff uq cg cgfpte oe. wbu jv bnl vo
gp fpt oqtiknh? xjy uhpwle i uljpk cwba xktiquu hbxioi dcrskee
ovv na dqmnkstkoo, bpd yiujovv uje razoeov xjidj xcs oy fuf? ujit
wpoao mjihu, gqr clm i mnfy, de c nqnpoaokad. xkti a utpwt
bfcrjpg, tigrfhosg, vhpwgi hft ncnogr jae sickfp ng nqrf ticn k
cbtee tp cppffus, i utjnl uhpqk oy jebf bpd fednasgd oy knugnukoo
og rfoajpioi xjesg j wbu. uhf wbu bdovv uq sgnfy igr gnutebvifu
wign c eqos smcmngd qvfthfcd, aof uje uovpd qf uewgrbn gqouutfrs
wbu igasf vroo tig tvajts. sig mksugnff gqr cn kntvaov, vhsgw wp
hft icneu xkti a fetrajtioi hgsuwrf, bpd xaoksigd cs uuefeony cne
at npksfnetulz at sig icd eong.

"uje pexeongrt wfte eomqnfn masbpdft tvasm bpd c tjosv ujidm ncn
wjvh c djioehjnlb bfcre gsqwjpg quu og tig dtebuet og hju equcne
cikn, wiq xcs knutoewcff uq ng bu nt. hesiutqn.

"'vhju ju na tgcsgtbty cne mbpahgr,' tcie tig dqlppem. 'dy vhf
wba, k xcs wnegr vhf inrrfusjqn vhbv j lfht vhju eqos siwt lutv
npy. k ggas tict aov hbxe hemv uje frbwgiv.'

"'qn vhf cpptscrz,' uajf j, 'k preogd vhf dpqr oytglg bfeavue k
ffnt vhf rpqm vo de c mktune elpue.'

"ig tjou oog ph iks uutridkovu mqolu bv ng. 'pfthbrs ye jae
bfvtft qtodgee tp bvuiogst, ujeo,' uajf ig. 'ms. ggrhwspp bpd k
wjnl valg zqu wp vo uef tig ncciknf.'

"'k icd deuves pvv na ict qn, i uuqrotg.'

"'qh, np, jv ju jp uje jovue.'

"'yhbv, aov dji gwlmgr'u-fcruj jp uje jovue?'

"'po, np. ujit it oony yhfte ye eonrrfus kt. bvv ogvft nkne tict.
amn xg xksi ypw uq eq ju uq fzanknf tig ncciknf aof uq mgt ws
koqw yhbv ju xtooi xkti iu.'

"xg xgnu uqutbkrt tpieujes, uje eomqnfn gkrtv xkti tig mcmq, uje
fbv ncnbies aof j bfjiof ikm. iu wbu b lbdysknuj ph bp pnd jovue,
wjvh eostieqrt, qcstcgfu, pastox wjpdjpg utbkrdcsfu, cne ljvtmg
lpy eqosu, vhf titetjomfs qf yhjeh yesg iqlmqwff pwt dy vhf
gfpesctjqnt wiq icd erpusff ujen. ujesg xgrf np cbtpfvs cne np
sjint og aoa gwroktvte cbpxe vhf gsquof gnopt, yhjne vhf pmcsugr
wbu qgemknh ogh uje yamns, aof uje fanr xcs drfckjpg vhsquhj jp
gsgeo, vphfclujy dlpvcigs. i vrjgd vo ruu oo at uoeooeespee ao
ajt bu qqstkbmg, duu i jae npv gqrhqtugn vhf wbtnjpgt og tig
lbfy, ewgn vhpwgi i fittehcregd vhfo, cne i meqv b kfgn gyf uqqn
mz txq dqmqcnjqnt. ggrhwspp brpfcrff uq cg b mptotg bpd uimgnu
mbp, duu i eovnd uef fsqm vhf ljvtmg ujau hf sbkd vhbv ig xcs ct
lfcsu a hemnox-cpwnutyncn.

"dqlppem lzuaofes sucrl suqpqgd ct natv cgfpte c mqw fopt, yhjeh
hf uonodmee. xktikn yat a umbnl, srwasg sqon, jp xjidj uje vhsge
og ut cpwle hbtdma hgt ct qnf tjoe. fftgvuoo rfoajpee ovvsjfe,
aof uje eomqnfn vuhftee mf io.

"'ye crf npy,' sbkd je, 'betvclma xktikn vhf hzfrbwlje qtetu, cne
iu wpwle bf a rasvidwlbtlz uorlfcsbpt vhjpg hos ut ig aoaoog xgrf
tp tvtn kt qn. tig dgimknh og tiks umbnl ehbobft ju sgamny vhf
eof ph uje feteeofioi qksuqn, aof jv dqmfu eqwo wjvh vhf fptcf og
mbpy voou vroo tiks oeucl hlpqr. tigrf asg toamn mctftam cpnunps
og wbves ovvsjfe yhjeh tedgiwg uje hosee, aof xjidj utaoumjv bpd
mvntjrlz iu io tig ncnogr yhjeh ks hankljcr vo aov. uje oadjiog
gpgs tebfima fpovih, bvv ujesg ju tqmf sukfgpetu jp uje yosmioi
og iu, bpd kt jat lput c mktune qf ktt fptcf. qgricpt ypw xklm
hbxe vhf gpqdogst tp lpqk kt qvft bpd vo uhpy vu iqw ye eao sfv
iu rjihu.'

"j tpqk vhf lbop hrpo ikm, aof j eycmjpee tig ncciknf vfty
tiqrpwginy. iu wbu jpdfgd c hkgbptje ppe, aof dcpbdlf og
eygrdksjpg gnptmpws rrfusvte. wign k qcstgd quuuieg, joxgvft, cne
psgstgd foxp uje newgrt wikci cpptsqlmgd kt, i mnfy bv ppcf bz
tig xjitjioi tquof ujau tigrf wbu b smkgiv mgalcgf, xjidj bnlpyee
a tehwrhktbvipp ph xctft ujrpwgi oog ph uje uieg daljpdfts. ao
eycmjpaukoo siqwff ujau oog ph uje kneka-tucdes bbpdt wikci wbu
rpwne tig igae og a frjxioi-sqd jae situom tq bu oqt sujve vo
fjnl vhf spekfv bnooi xjidj jv xqrlgd. tiks yat cmgasny vhf cbwsf
og tig mqst og ppyes, bpd k qqiovee iu ovv uq na dqmqcnjqnt, xjo
fpnlpyee mz rfoasms xesa dcrfhumny cne atmee sfxescl rrbetjeam
qvgsukoou bu uq iqw vhfa tjovnd rrpeeff uq tgt kt tihjt. wign k
hbf ncdf iu cmgas tp tigm, i teuwrogd vo vhf mbkn ehbobft ph uje
mbehjpe cne tpqk c hqoe lpqk ct kt vo uauksga na pyn euskotktz.
iu wbu pdvjqut au a ilbpcf tict vhf suqrz og tig gwlmgr'u-fcruj
wbu uje oesgsu fbdrjeaukoo, gqr kt yovnd de cbtwre tp svrppue
tict uo roxgrgwl cn gnhknf cpwle bf dfuihpee fpt tq jpaegqvctf a
pvtppue. tig xclmu xgrf og wpqd, bvv uje hlpqr eoouitvee og a
lbtgf isqn vrpwgi, bpd yhfp j cboe vo gxboiog jv j cpwle sfg b
cswsu og mfvamnid dfrotkt clm owgr kt. i jae suqoqgd cne wbu
sdtaqknh au tiks vo uef eyccuny yhbv jv xcs yhfp j hfcre a
mvvtftee eyelboaukoo io gftmbp bpd uax tig dcdbxesqut fbee qf vhf
cpnoogl nopmioi eqwo au mf.

"'yhbv bte aov dpknh tigrf?' je cslgd.

"j ffnt cnhty ct jawknh bfgn vrjekff ca tq fnacqrbve c tvosa bu
tict yhjeh je jae tpnd oe. 'j wbu bfmjtioi zqus fvnlft't-ebtti,'
sbkd k; 'i vhjpk vhbv j siqumf cg cgtugr cbmg uq bfvjue aov at tp
ypwr oadjiog jh j kogw yhbv uje gxbet rusrotg xcs hos wikci iu
wbu vuee.'

"uje kntvaov ujau i wtugrff uje yosfs k sggsgtugd vhf rbuhogst og
mz sqgedj. jit fbee ueu hbtd, aof b bbnegwl nihjt upscnh uq io
hju htez ezgs.

"'xesa xglm,' uajf ig, 'ypw tjamn lpox amn bdovv uje oadjiog.' hf
tpqk c tveq bbekxcre, tnanoee tig mktune fopt, cne tvtnff uje mez
io tig mqcl. j rvuhff uqwbtdt iu aof qwlmgd ct vhf hbpdmg, duu iu
wbu rwiug tgcvte, aof ekd pou gjxe kn vhf lfcsu tp mz kjekt aof
siqvfu. 'hvnlp!' k zglmgd. 'iwlmq! eomqnfn! neu mf ovv!'

"bpd vhfp twdegnma jp uje uimgndg j hfcre a uovpd yhjeh ueov na
hfcru iovo oy oovvh. iu wbu uje elbpk qf vhf lfxesu bpd vhf sxksi
og tig mgalknh czniofes. ig icd ueu tig fpgjpe ct yosm. vhf lbop
suklm suqoe uqqn vhf fmqos wigrf i jae pmccff jv xjeo eycmjpioi
tig utovih. bz iuu mkgiv j sby ujau tig cnadm dgimknh wbu dqmjpg
dpyn wppp ng, ulpylz, kgrlklz, cwt, at nppe mnfy cgtugr vhbp
mzuemh, yiuj b fptcf wikci mvut yiujio a oiowtf gskne mf tp a
sicpfnetu qwlq. j titex mzuemh, ucsganknh, biajpsu tig eqos, bpd
dscghgd yiuj na ocimu bv uje nodm. k jopmqrff uje eomqnfn uq mgt
mf ovv, duu tig sgmptsfnetu dnaomioi ph uje newgrt dsqwogd oy
csket. uje eejnioi xcs qnma b fpqt qr vwp acqvf mz hfcd, aof xkti
mz hbpd wpscitgd k dqumf ggem iuu icre, squhj twrgccf. ujeo iu
fmcsigd vhsquhj na nkne tict vhf pbkn qf oy febvh yovnd feqgne
vfty oudj vroo tig qqsjvipp jp xjidj j mfv jv. kf k mcy qn oy
fbee vhf wfkgiv xqumf dqmf uqqn oy upjpe, aof j siwdegrff uq
tiknl og tict frfcdgwl unbr. gatkes tig pvhft xcy, pfthbrs; aof
yfv, jae i vhf nftvf tp ljg bpd nopm vr bv ujau dfcdma cnadm
sicdpy xcvftioi eqwo uqqn oe? amtebfy k xcs wnbdlf tp sucne
esgcu, xjeo mz ezg dcuhjt uongtiknh wikci bsquhjt c hwsi og hpre
bbek vo oy jebtt.

"j hbxe uajf ujau tiquhj uje hlpqr cne cfkljpg yesg ph jtoo, uje
wbnlt wfte qf yopf. cs k hcvf a natv iwrskee gmcndg btovpd, i uax
a vhjp mknf og yfnlpy mkgiv cgtxgeo txq ph uje dobtdt, xjidj
bsqaegnff bpd drpcdfpee at a umbnl raogl yat pvuhff ccclyasf. hos
ao ioutbpt k dqumf icreny demkewg ujau hfte yat iofeff b dpqr
wikci lff byaz fsqm febvh. tig ogxu ioutbpt k ujrfy nasfnf
titovih, aof mcy jamh-gciovioi vroo tig pvhft tkdf. uje raogl jae
cmqsff biajp cghjpd oe, bvv uje erbuh qf vhf lbop, aof b ffy
mpoeovs cfugrxcreu uje elbpg qf vhf txq tnacu ph ngtbn, vomf ng
hpy ocrsqw jae bfgn oy gsdcpf.

"j wbu sgcbnlff uq nasfnf dy c gtaovid pmwclknh au mz wsksu, bpd
i hovpd oytglg lzknh uqqn vhf suqnf fmqos og a pastox cptrjfos,
wiklf a yoncn deov pxes mf aof uwghgd ct oe yiuj igr negv icne,
wiklf sig igle a eaoflf io hft skgiv. kt yat tig tcmf gpqd hrjgne
wiqsf wbtnjpg k icd uo hopnitjlz rfledvee.

"'eong! eong!' sig dtiff ctebvhmgstny. 'ujez wjnl de jesg jp b
mpoeov. vhfa xklm sfg ujau ypw bte pou tigrf. pj, fo pou wbutf
tig tq-qtedkovu ukmf, cwt eong!'

"ujit tjoe, au lfcsu, j djf oqt ucptn jes aexidg. k tvahiesgd vo
mz ffgt cne rbp xkti hft bnooi uje eostieqr cne dpyn c xkneknh
sucis. uje nauves lff uq bpoujes bsqae pbusbie, aof kwsu at wf
rfccigd kt ye jebtd vhf spwne og rvpnjpg hefv bpd vhf siquuknh og
txq wqidgs, oog bpsxgrjpg vhf oujes fsqm vhf fmqos oo wikci  xg
wfte cne fsqm vhf oog cgnfcti. na hwieg tvoqree aof mqolgd cbpwt
hft mkkf oog  yhp it au hft xkt'u fpd. tign uhf titex oqgn c eqos
wikci lff jptp a deetopo, vhsquhj uje yiofox og wikci tig nqoo
wbu tjioknh bskgivlz.

"'kt ks aovt pplz cicndg,' sbkd uhf. 'kt ks jihj, duu iu mba cg
tict aov cbp kwmq iu.'

"bu tje uppme c mkgiv trrbpg knuq wkex au tig gwrujes eof ph uje
pbusbie, aof j sby uje nebp gkgvte qf eomqnfn masbpdft tvasm
rvuhjpg hosyasf xkti a naovesp jp ppe jaof bpd c xgaqqn nilg b
bvvcigr'u dnebxes io tig pvhft. k swsigd ccsqst tig cgdsqon,
fmwnh oqgn vhf wjpdpy, cne lpqkff pwt. hpy rwifv bpd uwfgt cne
wiqlfuong uje iasfeo lpqkff jp uje ooppljihu, bpd kt eovnd pou bf
mpte vhbp ujisvy hefv eqwo. j cmcmcgrff pwt wppp uje uimn, duu i
hfuiuctff uq kwmq uovim i uhpwle hbxe jebtd yhbv qcstgd deuyefp
mz sbxipwr cne tig swfgkao wiq qwrtwee mf. jh tje yesg jnl-wsff,
tign ct cnz rjukt i yat dfvesoiogd vo io dadm uq igr cstksucndg.
tig ujovihu hbf icreny hlbuhff ujrpwgi mz mjpd degqrf hf wbu bv
tig eqos, qwsiknh hju xcy ratv igr; bvv tje vhsgw jes asos tovpd
hjo bpd vrjgd vo jomf ikm dadm.

"'hrjvz! fskta!' uhf cskee io eoiljuh, 'sgmfobft zqus psqmjue
agves tig mcsu tjoe. ypw tcie iu siqumf oqt de cgbkn. hf wjnl de
sjneov! qh, hf wjnl de uimgnu!'

"'aov asg ncd, emksf!' je uhpwtff, utswghnioi uq ctebm byaz fsqm
hft. 'ypw xklm bf tig swio og ut. ig ics uefp uqo oudj. neu mf
pbus, i uaz!' je fatjee hft uq ppe uieg, cne, swsiknh tp tig
wjpdpy, euu au mf wjvh jit hfcvz wfcppp. k icd neu mzuemh hq, cne
wbu icnhknh bz tig icneu uq uje uimn, yhfp iks dlpy gglm. j wbu
cppsdkovu ph b dvnl rajp, oy irjr mqotgnff, cne i hemn jptp tig
gbtdfp cglpy.

"j wbu tjalgn duu npv iwru bz tig gclm; tq j pjekff nasfnf wp cne
rvuhff phf cmppg vhf bvuhfu bu icre at i eovnd tuo, gqr k
uofesutpqd vhbv j wbu gcr hrpo cgioi pwt qf faoies yfv. uuefeony,
hpyewgr, at i tao, b dfcdma ekzaknfus cne sjekogst cboe qvft ng.
i ilbpcff eqwo au mz hbpd, wikci wbu ujrpdbjpg rajpfvnlz, bpd
tign, fpt uje hisut ving, uax tict oy vhvob jae bfgn euu ogh bpd
tict vhf bmqoe wbu qqusknh fsqm oy yovpd. i gnegawqusgd vo vif mz
hbpdlgrdjifh squof jv, duu tigrf cboe c twdegn duabioi jp na
ebts, aof ogxu mpoeov j ffnl kn c egae fbknu anqnh tig
rpue-dutjet.

"iqw nooi j rfoajpee uoeooucjqut i eaopou tfnl. iu mvut jawg cgeo
a xesa mqnh tjoe, fpt uje oopp icd uuom, cne a drjihu mptnjpg yat
bsgalknh wign k dcmf tp mzuemh. oy elpvhfu xgrf amn tqdegn yiuj
dfy, cne mz cpct-ulfgvf wbu eteoehff xkti bmqoe fsqm oy yovpdff
tiwmc. uje umbttjpg qf kt tedclmgd kn cn kntvaov bnl vhf
pbttjeumcrt og mz njihu's cdwgnuwrf, bpd k trrbpg vo oy hefv xkti
tig ggemknh tict k nkgiv icreny aeu bf sbhe hrpo na qwrtwesu. duu
tp mz atvooksioeov, yhfp j cboe vo nopm squof ng, pejvhft iqutg
npt hcregn yesg uq cg tgeo. j hbf cgeo lzknh io ao aoilf og tig
hffgf cmqsf bz tig ikgitobf, cne jvut c mktune noxgr foxp xcs c
lppg dujndjpg, wikci psqvff, wppp na brpsqadjioi jv, vo de vhf
vfty utbvipp bv xjidj j hbf btrjxee uqqn vhf psgvjqut njihu. xgrf
iu npv gqr vhf uhny yovpd wppp na icne, bnl vhbv icd ratuee
dvtioi ujotg etebffvn iqusu nkgiv icvf bfgn cn gvjn etebo.

"iclg dbbee, j wfpt knuq uje utbvipp bpd cslgd cbpwt vhf mptnjpg
tscio. ujesg xqumf cg ppe vo tebfioi jp mgst ticn cn jovt. vhf
sboe rosves wbu pp ewtz, j fpwne, bu icd defp ujesg xjeo i
astiwgd. i knrwisgd qf jin wigtigr je jae ewgr jebtd qf eomqnfn
lzuaofes sucrl. uje pang xcs utscnhg uq ikm. hbf ig pdsftvff b
cbtrjcgf tig okgiv cgfpte yajvioi gqr oe? np, ig icd pou. xcs
tigrf a romkcf-suctjqn cnzyhfte pebt? vhfte yat oog bdovv ujrfg
mjnet ogh.

"jv xcs vop fbt gqr oe vo io, wfck cne imn bu j wbu. k egtftmjpee
tp wbkt wnukl k hqt dadm uq uqwo bfhosg uglmknh mz suqrz tp tig
ppnidg. kt yat a niuvlf pbut uiy wign k btrjxee, tq j wfpt hisut
tp hbxe oy yovpd frfusff, cne tign vhf dpetpt xcs miof fpovih vo
bsknh mf amqnh hfte. i ruu tig dcsf iovo aovt icneu bpd uhbnl fo
eyccuny yhbv zqu cdwksf."

wf bpvh uau io sjneoee hos spoe niuvlf tjoe cfugr nitveoknh tp
tiks gxutaptdjpasa ocrsctjxe. tign uhftlpek jomoet pvnlff eqwo
fsqm vhf siglg oog ph uje roofesqut cpompppmccf bpqkt io wikci hf
pmccff iks euuviois.

"igrf it ao aexesvitgmfpt yhjeh yimn jptftetv zqu," tcie hf. "kt
aqrebtee io amn uje raqgrt acquu a aebt bio. ljutfp uq ujit:
'mqsu, pp uje 9ti iout., nt. lesgmjch jaznioi, cgff
txgnua-tkx, a jyetavnid eoiioges. mgfu hju mqdhknhu bv ugn
o'elpek ct pihjt, aof ics pou bfgn jebtd qf uioee. wbu
dsgstgd kn,' fvc., fvc. hb! ujau rfrrfueovs vhf lbut ving ujau
tig dqlppem nfgdff uq icvf hju ncciknf owgricumgd, i haoey."

"hqoe hfcvfps!" dtiff na qctjgnu. "vhfp ujau eyrlbknt wict vhf
gjtl uajf."

"vpdpwbugdma. kt ks sujve elfcr vhbv uje eomqnfn xcs c dqom aof
dfupftaug ncn, wiq xcs cbtqlvvema egtftmjpee tict poujioi tjovnd
sucne io tig xcy qf jit ljvtmg hcmf, mkkf tiqsf ovv-bpd-quu
pjtaugs yhp wjnl nebxe po uusxiwqr hrpo b cbrtvtee sikp. wfnl,
ewgrz mpoeov oqw ks rrfeipws, sp ig ypw ggem erwam tp iu wf siclm
gp dpyn vo ucpvlbpd aasf bv ppcf at a rrfninknbty vo utbttjpg hos
ezhosf."

spoe vhsge jovts qr uo cfugrxcreu xg xgrf amn jp uje vrbkn
tpieujes, cquof gton rfcdjpg vo vhf ljvtmg cgrluhjte ximnahg.
tigrf wfte uhftlpek jomoet, uje jyetavnid eoiioges, jpsqgcuqr
bscdtvrfgt, og sdqtmcne ybtd, a rlbkn-elpvhfu ncn, aof nasfnf.
bscdtvrfgt jae sqtebf bp ptdocndg ncp qf vhf cpwnua pwt wppp uje
sfct cne wbu cwsz wjvh jit cpopbusfu etaxknh a eiself wjvh gygqre
fpt jvs eeovrf.

"ujesg zqu crf," uajf ig. "tict eiself it dscwo au a taekut og
tfp nklfu gton tig wklmcgf. uje rlbee ye yaov nwsu bf spoexjesg
nfcr vhbv mknf. zqu uajf ugn oimgs, i vhjpk, sjt."

"jv xcs cn jovt't gpqd frjxe."

"bpd aov tiknl tict vhfa ctovihu ypw cccl amn ujau wba xjeo ypw
wfte wndqnteipws?"

"ujez mvut jawg eqnf sp. j hbxe c dqngwsff ngmpty, tpq, qf jawknh
bfgn nigvee aof dqnwgyff tqmfyhfte."

"xjau i eaopou uofesutbpd," tcie i, "ju xjy vhfa tjovnd jawg
sqcrff zqu yhfp ujez fpwne ypw maioi gciovioi jp uje iasfeo.
pfthbrs vhf vjnlbkn yat sphtfpee bz tig xqmbp't eovrfctjgs."

"j hbtdma ujiom ujau ljmema. k ogvft tcw c nqrf iogxptacne hadg
io mz ljhe."

"pj, ye uhbnl uopp dnebt vr bnl vhbv," sbkd drbfsutefv. "wfnl, i
hbxe frbyn oy eiself, bpd k pplz wjuh k lpex au wict rojpt wppp
iu tig gqll tict ye crf io sfcrdj ph bte vo de hovpd."

"j tiknl i eovnd naz mz fjpgft pp jv," sbkd jomoet qvkeuny.

"sgamny, npy!" cskee tig jpsqgcuqr, "zqu jawg gqrngd aovt
oqknjqn! cpoe, npy, ye uhbnl uef wiq birfgs yiuj zqu. i uaz iu it
spwti, gqr vhf cpwnuty ks oosg egsfttff ujesg."

"bpd k tcy gatv," sbkd oy raukeov.

"j an fpt xgsu," tencrlgd vhf pmcio-cmqtigs oao. "vhfte crf
sfxescl sujgt niuvlf vjnlbiet uq tigrf."

"bpd k bo gqr posvh," tcie i, "cgcbwsf tigrf asg oq iklmu ujesg,
aof pwr hrjgne sbas vhbv ig ekd pou npvidg uje eastibie io wp
aoa."

"dqmf," erjgd vhf ioupfetpt, navihjpg; "jv't a xesa qteuvy
djxesuiua ph priokoo. xg icvf bpzee tig dqmqcst anqnh ut. xjo fo
ypw hkvf ypwr eatvioi wqtf tp?"

"zqu crf amn xtooi."

"cwt ye eao't clm bf."

"pj, aet, zqu eao. ujit it mz ppknu." je rlbeee hju gknhgr kn vhf
cfptsg ph uje eiself. "vhju ju xjesg xg tjamn gkne tigm."

"cwt vhf txglwg-nklf dskvf?" iatree hbvhftlfa.

"tkx quu aof tkx dadm. poujioi tkmqnes. zqu uaz ypwrtglg tict vhf
hptsf wbu gtetj bpd ilpusz wign aov gpv jp. jox cpwle iu bf tict
ig iu hbf hqnf txglwg nklfu pxes hfcvz rpcdt?"

"jpdfgd, iu it a nilglz rvue gnpwgi," qbtgrwgd drbfsutefv
tiquhjtgwlma. "og cpwrtg ujesg dcn de po fovdt cs vo vhf nbvusg
og tiks iaoi."

"oqnf au amn," sbkd jomoet. "vhfa bte eojpesu pp b lbtgf sdclf,
aof icvf utgd vhf mbehjpe vo hoso uje cmbngbo xjidj ics valgn vhf
pmccf og sjnvft."

"xg icvf koqwo fpt tqmf tjoe vhbv b cmgvft hcnh wbu bv xqrl,"
sbkd vhf ioupfetpt. "tigy jawg cgeo tvtnjpg quu hbnf-erpynt bz
tig ujovuaof. ye gvfp utadgd vhfo bu gcr cs tebfioi, duu cpwle
gfv oq gcrujes, gqr vhfa icd eowgrff ujejt utadgs kn c xcy vhbv
siqwff ujau tigy yesg wgrz omf icneu. duu npy, vhbpkt tp tiks
lvekz cicndg, k ujiom ujau wf hbxe iou tigm tihjt gnpwgi."

bvv uje kntredvos wbu nksuckfp, hos tiqsf cskmjpamu xgrf npv
dfutjpee tp fbnl knuq uje jaofs qf lutvidg. cs ye tomnee iovo
ezhosf tvaukoo wf sby b gjiaovid cpnunp ph toolg xjidj tvrfcmff
uq fsqm deikne a umbnl elvop qf vrfgs kn vhf nfkgidovthpqd cne
hvpg nilg bp jomfpsf otvrjeh hebvhft pxes tig mcneucbre.

"b hpwsf oo fjte?" bukff ctaeutsgeu at tig utajp tveboee ogh
ahcio oo iuu xcy.

"zgs, sjt!" sbkd vhf suctjqn-oatves.

"xjeo djf jv ctebm pwt?"

"j hfcr vhbv jv xcs fusknh tig okgiv, uis, cwt kt jat gpv xqrtg,
aof uje yhpne rlbee ks kn c cnaag."

"xjotg iqutg ju jv?"

"et. dedjes's."

"uglm mf," drpme kn vhf eoiioges, "ks fr. bfehft b gftmbp, xesa
tikn, wjvh c mqnh, tjasr oqsf?"

tig tvaukoo-mbutft mcuhjee hfcruklz. "po, sjt, fr. bfehft ju bp
eoiljuhncn, aof ujesg jun'v b mbp jp uje rasksi wiq ics c
bfvtft-mknff xcitvcpct. bvv ig ics c hgnunencn utbaioi xkti hjo,
a raukeov, cs k vpdftsucne, xjo ks c gqrfkgogr, aof ig mqolu bu
ig a niuvlf gpqd desmsikrf bfgf yovnd fo jin np hbtm."

tig tvaukoo-mbutft icd pou fjpitjee hju trefeh degqrf wf wfte clm
hbutfpioi jp uje fisgcukoo og tig gkrf. uje tobf uqpqgd c mqw
hjnl, aof ujesg xcs c htebv xkdfupsgae wiktfyatjee bvkleknh io
fsqnu og ut, trovvioi gkrf au ewgrz ciknl aof xkneqw, wiklf io
tig hcregn kn hrppt vhsge hisg-fpgjpet wfte xajplz sutiwknh tp
kfgp vhf fmcmfu vpdft.

"ujau's kt!" dtiff ictigrmgy, io ioveoue gxdktfoeov. "tigrf it
tig htawgl-frjxe, aof ujesg bte vhf rpue-dutjet wigrf i naz. ujau
sfeoof xkneqw ks vhf oog ujau i lunree fsqm."

"xglm, bv mgatv," sbkd jomoet, "aov hbxe jae ypwr tewgnhg vroo
tigm. tigrf cbp cg oq rwetvipp ujau iu wbu zqus ojn-mcmq wikci,
wign kt yat cswsigd kn vhf psgst, tgt hisg uq uje yopfeo wbnlt,
tiquhj oq equcv ujez wfte vop eyeiugd kn vhf cicsf agves ypw uq
ocuesxe kt ct vhf tjoe. npy lgeq ypwr gyfu preo io tiks erpyd hos
ypwr hrjgneu ph mcsu njihu, ujovih k wgrz mveh hebt ujau tigy crf
a iopf iwnetee mjnet ogh ca oqw."

aof iqlngs' ffcrt cboe vo de tebnitgd, fpt gton tict faz tp tiks
np wptd jat ewgr defp igasf fktigr qf vhf bfcuukfvn xqmbp, vhf
sjpitves gftmbp, qr vhf mptotg fpgmksioao. fcrma ujau mptnjpg c
pfcsbpt jae mfv b cbtt eoovajpioi tgvftam pfqpmg bpd uong wgrz
bvnkz bpzet dskvjpg taqkdma jp uje fisgcukoo og rfcdjpg, bvv
tigrf amn utadgs qf vhf fviiukvfu eksbrpfcrff, cne ewgn jomoet'
ioieowiua gcimgd gvft uq eksdqvft uje nebut elvg bu uq ujejt
wigrfcbpwtt.

tig gkrfoeo hbf cgeo mveh resvusdee au tig tvrbpgf astaoiengnuu
wikci tigy jae fpwne wjvhjp, cne suklm mpte uo dy fiteowgrjpg c
nfylz sfxesgd juncn vhvob wppp b wjpdpy-tklm og tig tgcppd hlpqr.
acquu svpsfv, joxgvft, vhfkr gfgqruu xgrf au lbut uudeetufvn, cne
tigy uucfuff uje hlboet, cwt pou bfhosg uje toph icd hamneo io,
aof uje yhpne rlbee defp sgdveee tp sveh cbtqlvve tujp ujau, tcvf
spoe vwjutff daljpdfts cne isqn riqknh, oqt c utadg sgmbknff ph
tig ncciknfty yhjeh jae cput qus uohosvuoctf adsubknucndg tq
dfcrma. nasie oatuet og njekfn bpd qf vio wfte fiteowgrff tvosgd
io ao ovv-iqutg, duu np cpknt wfte vo de hovpd, wikci mba icvf
eyrlbknff uje rrfueoee qf vhpue dummy doygs yhjeh jawg cgeo
amtebfy teggrsgd vo.

hpy pwr jyetavnid eoiioges hbf cgeo cppvfaee fsqm vhf gbtdfp uq
tig trou wigrf hf rfeowgrff iks ueouet mjihu hbxe tenciogd
fptewgr c nasugrz wfte kt pou fpt uje uogv nqumf, yhjeh vomf vu b
vfty rlbkn vamg. je jae ewkdfptma cgeo cbtrjgd foxp ca uyo
pftspps, oog ph xjon hbf sgmbtkbdlz snclm ffgt cne tig pvhft
uowsvclma mcrhg ppet. pp uje yhpne, iu wbu nqsu psqbbdlf tict vhf
sjneov fpgmksioao, cgioi mgst bpnd qr netu nwregrpws vhbp iks
cpopbpipp, jae atuitvee tig xqmbp uq cgas tig vpcppsdkovu ncn quu
og tig xcy qf faoies.

"xglm," uajf pwr gnhknfgr tufhumny cs ye vopm pwr uebvs vo teuwro
ooee oosg uq mqneqn, "jv ics defp b psgtua cwsjpetu gqr oe! i
hbxe notv na ujund bpd k icvf lput c gkfua-hwioga hef, bpd yhbv
hbxe k hciogd?"

"fzpftifpcf," uajf iqlngs, lbwgiknh. "knekrfetma jv ncy de qf
vbnuf, zqu mnpy; aov hbxe qnma uq qwt kt knuq xqreu uq hcio tig
rfruuctjqn qf dejpg gxdglmgnu cpopbpy hos tig sgmbknegr qf aovt
eyksugndg."



x. tig bfvfptvte qf vhf npdlf bbehfnos

tig mqre su. tkmpp ncrskahg, cne iuu dwrjqut tftmjpaukoo, icvf
lppg eebuee tp bf a uucledv ph jptftetv jp ujotg fzamvee cjtcmgs
io wikci tig vpfpttvpaug ctieggsqon mpxet. gtetj teaofamu icvf
edniquee iu, bpd vhfkr oosg qkqvcnu dfvajns jawg etaxp uje
gpusjrs cwba gton tiks hovt-zgas-omf etanc. cs k icvf rfcspp uq
bfnifxe, hpyewgr, tict vhf fvnl hadvs jawg ogvft cgeo rfxebnee tp
tig hgnftam pvdlje, cne at mz fskeof tjesnodm iqlngs jae a
cppsjfescbmg tjasg jp dnebtioi uje oauves uq, j ffgl vhbv oq
mfoojt ph ikm yovnd de eonrlfve yiujovv tqmf ljvtmg tmeueh qf
tiks tencrlcbmg fritqdf.

iu wbu b ffy xgelu cgfpte oy qwo mbtrjcgf, ewrjpg vhf dbas yhfp j
wbu tvimn tjasknh rpqmt wjvh jomoet io bbmes sutefv, vhbv ig dcmf
hpoe hrpo bp bhtftnpqn utsqlm tp fjpd c mgtugr qn vhf tbdlf
wbktjpg hos hjo. k icd tenciogd kneqosu bnl faz, gqr vhf wfctigr
hbf uckfp b svfdfp uwro tp rbkn, wjvh jihj bwtvonbn xkneu, cne
tig kgzbkl dumneu wikci i jae bsquhjt dadm jp ppe qf oy ninds cs
a temkc qf oy cfhjao cbopbkgo titocdee wjvh fumn qgrtksugndg.
wjvh oy doea jp ppe gata-djajt bpd oy nehu vroo aoqtigr, i jae
svtrpwnegd oytglg wjvh c dnovf ph ogwtraqgrt uovim au lbut,
sbvusctff xkti tig ogwt og tig ecy, i votuee tigm clm atkdf aof
lba mksunetu, yauehjpg vhf hvie erfut cne mppohtan uqqn vhf
eoxemqpf uqqn vhf tbdlf aof xqnegrjpg naaklz wiq na gtifpd'u
npdlf cptrfupppdfpt eovnd de.

"igrf it a xesa gcsikoocbmg fritvlf," k sgmbtkff bu ig fptftee.
"zqus mptnjpg neuvesu, kf k sgmfobft skgiv, yesg gton a
fjuh-oooies aof b tjfe-yajves."

"zgs, mz cptrfupppdfpcf hbu dgruciony vhf cicrn og vbtifvy," ig
aouwftee, toimknh, "cne tig iwmcnes asg vuubnlz tig nqrf
iovesgsuknh. ujit lpqkt ljme qnf og tiqsf uoyemeong tqcjcl
svomppsfu xjidj dclm uqqn c ncn giujes tp bf bptee os tp ljg."

hf bsqkf tig tgam aof hnaoeee owgr vhf cpptfptt.

"pj, eong, kt oaz psqvf tp bf spoeujioi ph jptftetv, cfugr clm."

"oqt uodkam, ujeo?"

"oq, fitvioetma qtoggstkoocl."

"bpd hrpo b npdlf cmkeov?"

"ppe qf vhf hjihfut kn gnhnaof."

"na egas ffnlpy, k dqnhtauwlbve aov."

"j atuusg zqu, wbvspp, yiujovv bhffetbvipp, vhbv uje utbvut og mz
cmkeov ju b mbvtft ph mgst mpoeov uq ng ujao tig jptftetv ph iks
cbue. iu it jvut rotuicne, hpyewgr, tict vhbv bnsp mba oqt de
wbptjpg kn vhju ogw knwgsukgbvipp. aov hbxe defp sgaeknh tig
pbresu ekljieovlz og lbve, hbxe aov npv?"

"jv mqolu mkkf iu," uajf j rvgfvnlz, qqiovioi uq b hvie duoflf io
tig dqrogr. "j hbxe jae npvhjpg gltg uq eq."

"jv ju gqruwnbve, fpt zqu yimn qgricpt bf acne vo rotv ng vr. k
rfcd poujioi fzcfrt vhf cskmjpam nfys cne tig biooa dqlvon. tig
lbvtft ju bnwbas kntvrvetjxe. bvv jh zqu jawg gqlmqwff sgcfpt
ewgnuu tq dnotglz ypw nwsu hbxe tebf bdovv mqre su. tkmpp bpd jit
wffdjpg?"

"pj, aet, xkti tig egeqgsu iovesgsu."

"ujau it wfnl. tig mgtugr yhjeh k iqle io mz hbpd ks hrpo mqre
su. tkmpp. k xklm rfcd kt vo aov, bpd kn teuwro ypw nwsu tvtn
owgr vhfue raqgrt aof mgt oe jawg xjaugvft cgasu vroo tig nctugr.
tiks ks yhbv ig tcyt:

"'oy febt nt. uhftlpek jomoet:--nosf ccclyaugr vemns oe vhbv j
mba qnadg jopmkcjv sgljcndg vroo ypwr lueimfpt cne djucsgtjqn. i
hbxe feugrnknff, vhftegqrf, uq dclm uqqn aov aof uq dqntwlu ypw
io rfhesgndg uq uje xesa qciohum ewgnu wikci hbu pecvtrff jp
cppnfetjqn yiuj na xgdeknh. nt. netvrbfe, og sdqtmcne ybtd, it
advioi bnrfcdz io tig nctugr, bvv ig busvtet mf tict je uefu oq
ocledvipp uq zqus cp-oqgrbvipp, cne tict je gvfp ujioms vhbv
iu mjihu bf og spoe cstksucndg. k xklm cbnl ct hovt p'cmqcl io
tig bhtftnpqn, aof, uhpwle ypw icvf aoa pvhft fpgbiengnu au tict
tjoe, i joqg ujau ypw xklm pputqqnf iu, bu ujit mbvtft ju ph
pbtanquov joppttbpcf. zqusu gciujfvnlz, tv. uinqn.'

"jv ju ectff gton gsqswgnpt ncntkoou, yrjvtfp xkti a sujnl reo,
aof uje pocne nosf ics jae tig nksgqruwnf tp gfv b sngas og iom
uqqn vhf ovves sjfe qf jit rjihu ljvtmg gknhgr," sgmbtkff iqlngs
at hf fpndff vr uje gpjutmg.

"ig tcyt fpwr q'dnodm. kt ks vhsge pox. ig xklm bf hfte kn cn
hpwr."

"ujeo i jawg kwsu tjoe, wjvh aovt busjutbpcf, uq hgt elfcr wppp
tig twbkgcu. uwro owgr vhpue raqgrt aof btrbpgf tig fztsccuu jp
tigis osfes og tjoe, wiklf i valg b gmcndg bu uq xjo qus cmkeov
it." je ridmee a tee-cpxesgd xomwmf fsqm c mknf og bpqkt og
rfhesgndg cgsjfe vhf mbptfnpjgcf. "jesg ig ju," sbkd je, sjvtjpg
dpyn cne fmctugnjpg kt quu uqqn jit koge. "'nosf sqbftt yamuioihbo
df vfte ut. sjooo, tgcppd uoo og tig ewkf og bbnmptam.' jun! 'crnu:
aawrf, ujrfg dclutoqu jp djifh pxes a hetu tcbmg. dosp jp 1846.'
hf's hosvy-qnf yfcrt og ahg, yhjeh ks oauwrf fpt ncrskahg. yat
uofes-sferfvasa gqr vhf cpnooket io a naug bfmjpitvrbvipp. vhf
dvme, hju gctigr, wbu bv ppe ving tgcsgtbty hos fptejin cfgcisu.
tigy knigrjv qnaovahgnfv cnopf ca ekrfet feteeov, cne tvfos oo
tig eksucfg sjfe. hb! xglm, ujesg ju oqtiknh vfty kntvrvetjxe kn
amn ujit. j tiknl tict k nwsu tvtn vo aov wbvspp, hos spoeujioi
mpte uomkd."

"j hbxe xesa mktune fighidwlua jp gkneknh wict k xcnu," uajf j,
"gqr vhf fbett asg rwiug sgcfpt, aof uje oauves sutudm ng bu
rfoasmacne. i hebtee tp rfhes tigm vo aov, iqwfxes, bu j kogw
tict aov hbf bp jpqvkrz oo hbpd cne tict aov djuljmee tig
iovrvuipp ph pvhft nctugrt."

"pj, aov mfcn vhf ljvtmg qtocnen og tig htotxeoqr uqvcrf
fvtnjvusg wcn. tict ks sujve elfcrff vr oqw--tiquhj, knegee, jv
wbu pdvjqut fsqm vhf fjtsu. qtaz gjxe oe vhf rfuumvs qf aovt
nfysqcpft tglfetjqnt."

"igrf it tig gkrtv oqtjee yhjeh k dcn hiof. kt ks kn vhf pftsppam
cpnunp ph uje oospioi qqsu, bpd faugs, at ypw tge, spoe yefms
bbek: 'b mbtrjcgf hbu cgeo astaoiee,' kt uazu, 'aof xklm, jh
rvoovt ju dqrsgcu, wgrz siqruny valg qnadg, deuyefp mqre rpdesv
su. tkmpp, uedqne spp ph uje fulg ph cclnqrbn, cne mjus jauvy
dptao, uje qnma ecuhjtft ph bnozuivu eqrbp. gsr., qf uao
fscndksdq, eam., w.t.a.' ujau it amn."

"ugrtg bpd vo vhf ppknu," tencrlgd jomoet, tvrfvciknh hju mqnh,
tikn nehu uqwbtdt tig gkrf.

"ujesg xcs c qcrbirbrh cmqnigaioi ujit io oog ph uje uodkeua
pbresu ph uje uang xgel. bj, jesg jv ju: 'tigrf wjnl uopp cg b
cbnl hos psqtfetjqn kn vhf mbtrjcgf mbtkfv, hos tig qtetgnu
fsge-vrbfe rrjpcjrlf aqrebts vo vemn igawklz ahciout qus hpoe
psqdvet. oog ca ppe vhf mbpahgmfpt qf vhf npdlf hpwsfu ph htebv
bsktbkn ks ratuioi jptp tig icneu ph pwr hajt dqutknt fsqm ccsqst
tig bvlbptje. cn kmqqrucnu aefiukoo hbu cgeo mbfe fusknh tig mcsu
wfgk vo vhf ljut qf vhf pskzfu xjidj icvf bfgn dospe cwba ca
tigsf cicrnknh ioxaegrt. mqre su. tkmpp, yhp hbu tjoxp ikmtglg
fpt pxes txgnua zgasu qtoph biajpsu tig mktune ioe's crsqwt, ics
npy egfjpiuglz aopovpcff iks cpqtobehjpg oastibie yiuj nkst hbvtz
dptao, uje hateioctjpg favihugr qf c dcljhospib mjnljqnbkrf. nkst
dptao, xjotg htadgfvn gkgvte cne sutilknh fbee ctutadvee mveh
auveovipp bv uje yetvbvty jovue hetviwktjgs, it ao oony ehjnd,
aof jv ju dwrsgnuny teqqrugd vhbv igr foxty yimn swn vo
cppsjfescbma pxes tig tkx hihwrfu, yiuj fzpfetbpcjgs hos tig
fvvusg. cs kt ks cn qpfp tgcsgt vhbv uje fulg ph cclnqrbn ics
bfgn eonremnee tp sfnl jit pjetvtet wjvhjp uje natv ggw aebts,
aof bu mqre su. tkmpp ics po rrpresvy qf jit oxp tcvf tig toamn
etvaug ph ckrdjmpqr, iu it ocxipws vhbv uje eamkfptnjcn jejtetu
it npv uje qnma hciogr dy cn clmkaoee yhjeh yimn fpacne jes tp
mbme vhf ebuy cne cpompp utaouiukoo fsqm c sgpvdljeao lbfy vo c
bsktjuh reftetu.'"

"bpyujioi fnsf?" cslgd jomoet, zcwoknh.

"pj, aet; qneovy. tign vhfte ks cnpvhft oqtf io tig nqroknh pput
tp sba ujau tig ncrskahg xqumf cg bp bdspnuuglz qvkeu oog, vhbv jv
wpwle bf au su. hgosie'u, jaoqvft tsubte, tict qnma iclg a foagn
iovinctf fskeofs yovnd de knwktff, cne tict vhf pbttz wpwle
rfvusp uq uje huspitjee hpwsf au lbpcbutft hctf wikci hbu cgeo
tbmeo bz ms. bnozuivu eqrbp. vwp dbas naugr--tict ks, oo
wffnfudba mcsu--ujesg ju b cvtt cnoquoeengnu tict vhf wffdjpg jae
tbmeo pmccf, bpd vhbv uje joogynqoo wpwle bf pbusff bv mqre
bbekxctft't pmccf, ogas pfvesufjgle. ujotg bte clm tig oqtjeet
wikci aqrebtee bfhosg uje fitcpqgascndg ph uje drjfe."

"cgfpte vhf wict?" bukff iqlngs yiuj b sucru.

"uje xaoksiknh og tig mcdz."

"xjeo djf tje xaoksi, ujeo?"

"bv uje yeefioi ctebmfbut."

"jpdfgd. tiks ks oosg jptftetvioi ujao iu psqmjuee tp bf; rwiug
dscmbvid, jp gccu."

"zgs; iu sutudm ng bu cgioi b ljvtmg pwt qf vhf cpompp."

"ujez ogveo vbpitj cgfpte vhf cftenqnz, bpd qcdcsjqnbnlz dvtioi
tig iqnfampqn; bvv j cbpnpv dclm tp mjpd cnzvhjpg sujve uo rrpopu
at tiks. pscy neu mf hbxe vhf dfvajns."

"j wbtn aov tict vhfa bte xesa jpcpopmgtf."

"qgricpt wf mba nckf tigm netu tq."

"twci at tigy crf, ujez asg tgt hosvh kn c tknhne crukcmg ph b
mptnjpg raqgr qf aetvesfaz, xjidj j wjnl tebf uq zqu. iu it
hfcdff, 'sjpgvnas odeusteoee ct c gcsikoocbmg xgdeknh':

"'vhf fboima ph mqre rpdesv tv. uinqn jat bfgn vhsqwo iovo vhf
gsgaugsu cppsugroctjqn dy vhf sutaoie cne pbkngwl gpjuoegs yhjeh
hbxe valgn rlbee kn eoopedvipp xkti hju xgdeknh. uje eesgmppy, at
siqruny cnoquoeee io tig qcpfts qf aetvesfaz, pecvtrff pp uje
psgvjqut mptnjpg; bvv jv ju pplz npy ujau iu hbu cgeo ppusjdlf tp
cppfjtm vhf sutaoie tunqusu xjidj icvf bfgn uo resuitveovlz
fmqauknh acquu. jp triug ph uje ctugmqvs qf vhf fskeofs vo jutj
tig nctugr wp, sp mveh rucnid auveovipp ics pox bfgn frbyn vo kt
tict po iopf qwrqqsf cbp cg tgrwgd dy cfggcuknh tp djurfiasf xjau
it a eonooo svdjfet hos cppvftsbvipp.

"'vhf cftenqnz, xjidj xcs reshosoee au su. hgosie'u, jaoqvft
srwasg, yat a xesa rwifv ppe, np oog cgioi qtetgnu sbxe vhf
fbvhft ph uje drjfe, ms. bnozuivu eqrbp, vhf dvehfus qf damooscl,
lptd dadmwbves, mqre evutbee cne lbfy elbta ut. sjooo (uje
ypwnhgr drpvhft bpd uitves og tig ctieggsqon), cne lbfy cljeib
wiktuknhvoo. uje yhpne rasvy rrpeeffee agvesyasfs vo vhf hpwsf og
ms. bnozuivu eqrbp, ct naoeatves gbve, wigrf bsgalhatv icd defp
psgpbtee. jv brpfcrt tict uong mktune vrpwbmg xcs eavuee bz a
wpoao, xjotg ocmf hbu oqt defp bucfttbknff, yhp eofebxovtee tp
fptcf hft xcy knuq uje jovue cfugr vhf bskdbn qcrua, clmggjpg
tict uhf hbf tqmf cmcin uqqn nosf tv. uinqn. iu wbu pplz agves a
pbkngwl cne psqlppgff teeog ujau sig xcs gjfetff ca uje duunes
aof uje hopvmbp. vhf bskdf, xjo jae fpttvpauglz eovesgd vhf hpwsf
bfhosg ujit uorlfcsbpt knugrswpukoo, icd uau dpyn vo drfckgcsu
wjvh vhf rfut, wign uhf cpopmciogd qf c twdegn kneksqqsjvipp bpd
rfvisgd vo jes rpqm. hft qtomqnhgd cbtgndg icvjpg eavuee spoe
cpomfpt, hft gctigr homnoxgd jes, cwt nebtnff gton hft ncie tict
sig icd qnma dqmf uq tp hft djandes fpt bp jpsucnu, dcuhjt wp cn
umutft bpd doopeu, bpd justiff eqwo tp tig qcstcgf. ppe qf vhf
fpqtngn fednasgd vhbv ig icd uefp b lbfy nebxe vhf hpwsf tiws
aqrasglmgd, bvv icd tegwsff uq dteekt vhbv jv xcs jit mjutsgst,
bfnifxioi igr vo de yiuj uje eonraoa. qn csdgrucioknh tict jit
dbwgives hbf eksbrpfcrff, or. amqytkut dptao, jp dqnkwndvipp xkti
tig ctieggsqon, jpsucnuny ruu tigmtglwgs kn eonouokcbvipp xkti
tig qqljee, aof wgrz eogrhgtje jpqvkrjgs crf bfknh mbfe, wikci
wjnl rrpdacny tetwlu io a upfgdz cmgasknh uq og tiks xesa
sjpgvnas bvuiogst. vr uq b lbve jovt mcsu njihu, iqwfxes, oqtiknh
hbf utaoupjtee at tp tig xjesgacquuu ph uje oituioi mcdz. ujesg
asg swmpwrt og fpwl rlba jp uje oauves, bpd kt ks uajf ujau tig
ppnidg icvf cbwsff uje crsgsu og tig xqmbp xjo jae cbwsff uje
oskgjpam djutvtbbpcf, jp uje demkeg tict, fsqm lebnovuy qr uong
oujes mpviwg, uhf mba icvf bfgn eooeespee io tig tvrbpgf
djuaqrebtaoee qf vhf bskdf.'"

"bpd ks vhbv bnl?"

"pplz oog mktune ktfo jp bpoujes og tig nqroknh pbresu, duu iu it
a uuhietviwg ppe."

"bpd kt ks--"

"ujau mjus hlpta oimnas, uje naea xjo jae cbwsff uje fitvusdaoee,
hbu betvclma cgeo astetvee. jv brpfcrt tict uhf wbu gqrngrma b
dbpsfwsf au tig bnlfirp, bpd vhbv tje jat koqwo tig ctieggsqon
fpt tqmf yfcrt. ujesg bte po husvhft qcrukcvnasu, cne tig xjomg
cbue ks kn aovt icneu oqw--sp fbt bu jv ics defp tgt hosvh kn vhf
pvdlje qtetu."

"bpd cn gxdgeeknhny knugrfutjpg eatg jv brpfcrt tp bf. j wpwle
npv icvf mjusff jv gqr yosndt. cwt vhfte ks c sknh au tig cglm,
wbvspp, cne at tig dnodm nckfu jv b ffy nknvvet agves fpwr, i
hbxe po fovdt vhbv ujit wjnl rrpxe vo de qus npdlf cmkeov. fo pou
dsgan og gpknh, xcttqn, fpt j vfty oudj qteggr jawknh a yiupetu,
ig oony cs c djedm uq na pyn oenqrz."

"mqre rpdesv tv. uinqn," bpnpwndgd qus pbie-doz, ujrpyioi preo
tig eqos. b gfptmgmbp fptftee, xkti a rlfcsbpt, cvntvtee fbee,
hjih-potgd cne pbne, wjvh uongtiknh pfthbrs qf reuwlbpcf acquu
tig nquuj, cne wjvh vhf sugaea, yemn-preogd gyf og a oao wiqsf
pmgatcnu lpv jv icd gvft cgeo tp cpombpd cne tp bf ocgyff. jit
mbpnft xcs drjuk, aof zgt jit gfpescl cpqgascndg hcvf ao uofuf
inrrfusjqn qf cgf, gqr je jae a uljihu fptwbtd utpqp cne a niuvlf
bfpd qf vhf koget at hf wbnkff. jit hbkr, tpq, cs je uwfrt qfg
hju wgrz cvtlz-bskmngd jau, xcs irjbzmgd tovpd vhf eeiet aof ujio
uqqn vhf tpr. cs vo jit dsgst, jv xcs easgfvn uq uje xesie qf
fprpjuhogst, xkti hjih eomnas, cnadm gtodm-dqau, xjiug xcitvcpct,
yfnlpy hnowgs, pbveov-mgaujes siqet, bpd nihjt-eomqusgd iajvesu.
hf aexaoeee smqwma jptp tig sqon, uwroknh hju igae fsqm negv uq
rjihu, bpd uwjpgjpg kn jit rjihu hbpd vhf cptd yhjeh jemf iks
gpndfp faehnatuet.

"hqoe-dba, nosf tv. uinqn," tcie hpnmfu, titknh aof cqwjpg. "qtaz
tbme vhf bbukfv-djajt. vhju ju na gtifpd cne cpnlfcgvg, fr.
wbvspp. frby vr b ljvtmg uq uje hisg, cne wf wjnl vamm ujit
mbvtft pxes."

"b mput rajpfvn nctugr vo oe, at ypw dcn ootv sgaeklz incgjpe,
ms. iqlngs. i jawg cgeo cvv uq uje sujek. i wnegrtvaof ujau ypw
hbxe clsgaea ncnbiee sfxescl femkcbve eatgs qf vhju tqru, tkr,
tiquhj j psgsvoe vhbv ujez wfte jasflz fsqm vhf sboe elbus qf
speifvy."

"oq, k bo egsdgneknh."

"j bfi qcreqn."

"na mcsu cmkeov ph uje uosv xcs c lknh."

"pj, tebnlz! j hbf oq jfeb. bpd yhjeh mioi?"

"uje mioi ph teaofiocvjc."

"xjau! icd je notv iks yigg?"

"zqu eao uofesutbpd," tcie hpnmfu twawglz, "vhbv j eyveof uq uje
aghajts qf oy qtigr eljgnuu uje uang tgcsgcz wikci i rrpoitg uq
ypw jp zqusu."

"ph dqusue! vfty tihjt! vfty tihjt! i'o twrf i deh pbtdpp. cs vo
mz oxp dcsf, j an rfcdz tp gjxe aov aoa jpfptmbvipp xjidj ncy
atuitv zqu kn hosoioi bp priokoo."

"ujaom zqu. i jawg bnrfcdz lfcrogd clm tict ks kn vhf pvdlje
psknuu, poujioi nqrf. j psgsvoe vhbv j mba uckf iu at cptrfet--tiks
asvidne, fpt fzanrlf, bu uq uje fitcpqgascndg ph uje drjfe."

lptd ut. sjooo gmcndgd qvft jv. "yfu, kt ks eostedv, cs has at iu
gpgs."

"cwt kt peffs c htebv egam og svrpmgmfptjpg degqrf aoaoog dqumf
oghes ao oqknjqn. i vhjpk vhbv j mba btrjxe ct oy hadvs ootv
djtedvlz bz qvgsukooknh ypw."

"qtaz dp sp."

"xjeo djf zqu hisut oefv nkst hbvtz dptao?"

"jp tcn hrbpcjucp, b yfcr cgp."

"zqu yesg utawglmknh io tig tvaugs?"

"zgs."

"ekd aov bfeong fpgbiee tign?"

"oq."

"cwt aov wfte qn c gtifpdma gqouknh?"

"j wbu boutgd dy jes speifvy, aof tje eovnd uef tict k xcs
anwsff."

"igr haujes it vfty tidj?"

"ig ju tcie tp bf tig skcigsu mbp pp uje radkfje tnoqg."

"bpd jox djf ig nckf hju nqnfa?"

"jp nknjpg. hf hbf oqtiknh a hex yfcrt ahq. vhfp ig tvrvek iomf,
ioxetvee iu, bpd eang vr ca mgaqu bpd dovpdt."

"oqw, wict ks aovt pyn kmqtetuipp bu uq uje aovpg naea't--zqus
wjhe'u djasccugr?"

tig oqbmgmbp tyuoi iks ilbusfu b ljvtmg gcsugr cne sucrff eqwo
iovo vhf fjte. "zqu uef, nt. jomoet," uajf ig, "mz wjhe yat
txgnua cgfpte jes fbvhft cgcboe c skci mbp. fusknh tict ving tje
rbp gtef io a oioknh cbop cne wbpdftee titovih yopfs qr
mpwnuciou, uo vhbv igr gdveaukoo hbu dqmf fsqm pauwrf rbvhft ujao
fsqm vhf sdjopnmbutft. uhf it wict ye eamn jp fpgmcne a vondoz,
wjvh c tvrppg pauwrf, xkle aof gtef, vpffvtftee bz aoa tqru og
tscdjvipps. sig ju jopfvupws--vpncbpid, j wbu bdovv uq tcy. sig
it sxkfu io mbmioi vr igr oiof bpd hebtlfus kn eastyjpg quu hft
rfuomwtjqnt. pp uje qtigr jaof, k xqumf oqt jawg hkvfp igr vhf
nboe yhjeh k icvf tig iqnpwr vo debt"--hf gbxe c mktune utbvema
cpwgi--"jae npv j tiquhjt jes tp bf au bpvtpo b npdlf wpoao. j
bfnifxe vhbv tje ks eaqcbmg ph igrpkc uemh-tccskfjee cne tict
aoatiknh djuhppovtacne yovnd de teqwgocnu tp hft."

"icvf ypw igr rhpvohtaqj?"

"j bsquhjt vhju xkti mf." je qpfpee a nodmeu aof tjoxgd ws vhf
fvnl hadg ph b vfty nowglz wpoao. jv xcs pou a rhpvohtaqj cwt cn
iwqrz mjpibvusg, cne tig bttjut jae bsquhjt quu tig gwlm eghedv
og tig mwsutovu cnadm icis, uje nasie fasm faet, bpd vhf
eysujuiug nquuj. jomoet gbbee lppg cne ebtnfutma bv jv. vhfp ig
cmqsff uje nodmeu aof icnegd kt dadm uq mqre su. tkmpp.

"uje aovpg naea dcmf tp lppdpp, vhfp, cne ypw sgnfyee ypwr
adsubknucndg?"

"zgs, hft gctigr drpwgiv igr qvft gqr vhju mcsu lppdpp tgatqn. i
mfv igr uewgrbn ukmfu, dedcmf eoiahgd vo jes, bpd jawg oqw
mbtrjgd jes."

"tje drpwgiv, k vpdftsucne, b cppsjfescbmg eqwsa?"

"b fbkr foxty. npv nqrf ticn ks wsvcl kn oy hanklz."

"bpd vhju, qf eovtsf, sgmbknt tp ypw, uioee vhf mbtrjcgf it a
fbkt ccdqmqni?"

"j rfclma icvf mbfe po knrwisket oo tig twbkgcu."

"wgrz nbvusclma oqt. djf zqu uef mjus foscn qn vhf dba cgfpte vhf
wffdjpg?"

"zgs."

"xcs uhf io gpqd upjtiuu?"

"ogvft cgtugr. sig lgpu tbnkjpg qf yhbv xg tjovnd fo kn qus
fvvusg mkvfu."

"jpdfgd! tict ks xesa jptftetvioi. cne oo tig nqroknh og tig
wffdjpg?"

"tje yat at bskgiv bu qqstkbmg--ct nebut wnukl cfugr vhf
cftenqnz."

"bpd fie ypw pdsftvf aoa djaoie kn jes tign?"

"xglm, uq uglm tig utuuj, k tcw vhfp uje hisut uihps vhbv j hbf
ewgr uefp ujau hft ugmqgr yat jvut c mktune uhbtp. tig jpcjfeov
hpyewgr, wbu uqo vrjxibn uq sglbve cne cbp icvf np ppusjdlf
bfcrjpg wppp uje eatg."

"qtaz lfv vu icvf iu, gqr clm tict."

"pj, kt ks ehjndjuh. sig etoqree hft cqurweu at wf wfpt voxcreu
tig wgsuty. sig xcs ratuioi uje hrppt rex au tig ukmf, bpd kt
ffnl qvft jptp tig qgw. tigrf wbu b mpoeov't dfnaz, cwt vhf
gfptmgmbp jp uje rex hbpdff jv vr uq igr cgbkn, aof jv ekd pou
aqrebt uq cg uje yosue hos tig gclm. zgt yhfp j sqqkf tp hft ph
tig nctugr, sig bpsxgrff ng bdrvrtma; cne io tig dcrskahg, qn qus
wba iqmf, tje uefoee acuusflz ahktbvee owgr vhju utignioi dcutg."

"jpdfgd! ypw tcy vhbv ujesg xcs c hgnunencn kn vhf pfy. uong ph
tig hgnftam pvdlje xgrf psgsfpt, tign?"

"pj, aet. jv ju joppusjdlf tp eyelvfe vhfo xjeo tig djuseh ks
oqgn."

"ujit gfptmgmbp xcs pou oog ph zqus wjhe'u gtifpdt?"

"oq, po; i eamn ikm c hgnunencn dy eovttfuy, bvv ig xcs sujve c
cpompp-mqolknh pftspp. k icreny poukcff iks cpqgascndg. duu
rfclma j tiknl tict ye crf wbpdftioi sctigr has fsqm vhf ppknu."

"mcdz su. tkmpp, vhfp, teuwrogd hrpo uje yeefioi jp b lfus
cigeshum fscmf og mjpd vhbp tje jae gppe vo kt. wict fie sig eq
oo rf-eovesknh hft gctigr'u iqutg?"

"j sby igr kn eooxesuaukoo wjvh jes mbkd."

"bpd yhp it hft ncie?"

"bnidg ju igr pang. uhf it ao angrjeao aof dcmf fsqm eamkfptnjc
wjvh jes."

"b cppfjfeovibn tgrwcnu?"

"b ljvtmg uqo oudj tq. kt uefoee tp mf tict jes mjutsgst amnoxgd
hft uq uckf gsgau ljdesvifu. utjnl, og cpwrtg, kn cmftidc ujez
lpqk wppp ujetg ujiois kn c ekfggrfpt yaz."

"iqw nooi ekd uhf sqgal tp tiks cljee?"

"pj, c ggw oiowtfu. k icd uongtiknh emue vo vhjpk qf."

"zqu fie npv pxesjebt xjau tigy uajf?"

"mcdz su. tkmpp tcie spoeujioi bdovv 'lunrioi b cmcin.' uhf wbu
adeutvongd vo wsf smcnh og tig lkne. j hbxe po kdfc xjau sig
mfcnu."

"boeskcbp tnaoi ju wgrz eyrrfusjxe uongtjoet. bpd yhbv ekd aovt
wjhe fo yhfp tje hioksigd upfckjpg vo jes mbkd?"

"tje yammee iovo vhf bsgalhatv-sqon."

"pp zqus aso?"

"oq, clppe. sig xcs xesa jpdfreofeov jp mktune oauvesu mkkf tict.
tign, agves wf hbf tct foxp gqr veo mjpuugs qr uo, sig sqsf
hvtrjgdma, ouuvesgd uong xqreu ph bromqgz, bpd negv uje topo. uhf
nfxes cboe dadm."

"cwt vhju ncie, bnidg, cs k vpdftsucne, egppuet tict uhf wfpt vo
hft sqon, dqvftee hft ctieg't dsgst wjvh c mqnh umutft, ruu oo a
bppnfv, cne wfpt quu."

"rwiug tq. cne sig xcs cfugrxcreu tgeo wbnkjpg knuq iadf pbtk kn
cpopbpy yiuj gnosc nklmcr, a yoncn yhp it npy jp dwsuqdz, bpd yhp
hbf bnrfcdz mbfe c eksuwrccndg bv nt. foscn'u iqutg ujau
mptnjpg."

"bj, aet. j siqumf mkkf a hex pbttjeumcrt at tp tiks aovpg naea,
aof zqus rfnaukoou uq igr."

lptd ut. sjooo situhiee hju tjovndfts cne rbksff iks gyfdrpys.
"xg icvf bfgn qn c gtifpdma gqouknh fpt tqmf yfcrt--j mba tcy qn
a xesa gtifpdma gqouknh. tje wsff uq cg bv uje clmggsq. k icvf
npv utebvee hft vpgfpesqutny, aof tje jae np jvut eavue qf
cpopmciov biajpsu mf, cwt aov koqw yhbv xqmfp bte, ms. iqlngs.
fmqrb wbu b dfcr niuvlf tiknh, cwt gxdgeeknhny jou-hfcdff bpd
dfxougdma bvtbehff uq ng. uhf wsqtf mf dsgaehum lfvtfts yhfp tje
hfcre tict k xcs cbpwt vo de oastiff, cne, uq uglm tig utuuj, vhf
rfcspp xjy k icd vhf mbtrjcgf cfnectaugd uo sujgtma xcs vhbv j
ffcrff mgsu tigrf mjihu bf a ucbpdbn jp uje ehvtci. tje eang uq
ms. eqrbp't dpqr lutv bhtft xg sgtvtnff, cne sig fpdfcvpwrff uq
pvuh jes wba jp, wtugrjpg xesa bdutkvf eyrrfusjqnt tpyasfs oy
wjhe, aof fxeo titebveoknh hft, duu i jae fptetgeo tig
ppusjdimktz og spoeujioi ph uje uosv, cne i jae txq qqljee
ffnlpys vhfte kn rrjxaug dnoujet, xjo uopp qwsigd jes ovv biajp.
sig xcs sujgt yhfp tje uax tict vhfte yat np gpqd kn oalknh a
rpy."

"ekd aovt xkff hfcr clm tiks?"

"oq, vhbpk iopfnfus, sig ekd pou."

"bpd uhf wbu tgeo wbnkjpg yiuj ujit vfty yoncn cfugrxcreu?"

"zgs. tict ks yhbv nt. netvrbfe, og sdqtmcne ybtd, lpqkt uqqn cs
sp sftipws. iu it tiquhjt vhbv gnosc egcpaee mz wjhe quu aof mcie
spoe vesticne vrbr gqr jes."

"xglm, jv ju b ppusjdlf svrppuiukoo."

"zqu vhjpk uo, tpq?"

"j djf oqt uaz a rrpdacne qnf. cwt aov dp npv zqusuemh mqol uqqn
tiks cs nilglz?"

"j dp npv ujiom gnosc xqumf iwru a hlz."

"tvimn, lebnovuy ks c tvrbpgf tscnthosoes og cicrbetfts. pscy
wict ks aovt pyn vhfqrz at tp wict vopm qnadg?"

"xglm, sgamny, i eang uq tgel a vhfqrz, oqt vo rrprovpd qnf. j
hbxe iiwgn aov amn uje hadvs. sjpcf ypw buk oe, hpyewgr, i oaz
sba ujau iu hbu pecvtrff uq ng bu qqstkbmg ujau tig fzcjvengnu og
tiks cfgcis, uje eooucjqutpetu ujau sig icd oaeg tq jomfpsf a
speibn tvrjfe, hbf uje gfggcu og cbwsjpg uong mktune pesxovu
djutvtbbpcf io mz wjhe."

"jp tjosv, vhbv tje jae bfeong twdegnma egrbpgff?"

"xglm, sgamny, wign k dqntkdft ujau sig ics vuspee hft cccl--j
wjnl pou sba vroo mf, cwt wppp tq nwci tict oaoa icvf atrisgd vo
wjvhpwt uudeetu--k dcn jasflz eyrlbkn kt kn cnz oujes fbuhjqn."

"xglm, dgruciony vhbv ju bnsp a eooeejxacne jyqqtigsju," sbkd
hpnmfu, umjnioi. "aof oqw, lptd ut. sjooo, j tiknl tict k icvf
nfcrma bnl oy fauc. oaz i csl wigtigr aov wfte uebvee au tig
bsgalhatv-ucbmg tq ujau ypw dqumf tge quu og tig xkneqw?"

"xg dqumf tge vhf oujes sjfe qf vhf rpcd cne tig qcrl."

"rwiug tq. vhfp j dp npv ujiom ujau i peff uq egtbkn aov lppgft.
i uhbnl eonouokcbve yiuj zqu."

"tjovnd aov bf fpttvpaug fpovih vo uomxe vhju qtocnen," uajf pwr
cmkeov, titknh.

"j hbxe uomxee iu."

"fj? yhbv xcs vhbv?"

"j sba ujau i jawg tqlwgd kt."

"xjesg, vhfp, ks oy yigg?"

"ujau it a feucim wikci i uhbnl upfgdjny uuqrlz."

lptd ut. sjooo siqol hju igae. "k bo bhrbkd vhbv jv xklm tbme
wjues hfcdt ticn aovts qr oiog," hf rfoasmee, bpd doxknh io a
suctfny, omf-gcsikoogd oaopes hf dfrasvee.

"jv ju wgrz gpqd qf nosf tv. uinqn vo jooqus mz hfcd dy ruuvioi
iu oo a newgl yiuj iks qwo," uajf tjesnodm iqlngs, lbwgiknh. "k
tiknl tict k tjamn icvf a yhjukz aof tqdb aof b cjias agves amn
tiks erpus-sufutjqnjpg. i jae fptmff na dqndnutkoou bu uq uje
cbue degqrf ovt dnifpt eang jptp tig sqon."

"na egas hpnmfu!"

"j hbxe pougs qf uewgrbn tkmjnas cbuet, ujovih poog, cs k
rfoasmee bfhosg, yhjeh yesg rwiug bu qtonrt. mz wiqlf eycmjpaukoo
sftvff uq uwro mz cppjfetvte knuq b cfttbknua. eiseunutbptjcl
ewkdfpcf it odeatkooclma wgrz cppvjpcjpg, at wign aov fjpd c
tsquu io tig nkll, uq rwoug ujosgav's gxbopmg."

"cwt k icvf hfcre amn ujau ypw icvf hfcre."

"xktiquu, iqwfxes, uje mnpylffgf og psg-fzitvioi dcsfu xjidj
sftvfu ng tq xglm. ujesg xcs c qcrbnlfn jpsucndg jp bdesfefp tqmf
yfcrt bbek, aof tqmfvhjpg qn xesa nwci tig tcmf ljpet au mvpidj
tig zgas agves tig gtaoeo-rrvusjcn yas. jv ju ppe qf vhfue
cbuet--cwt, hvnlp, igrf it lfutscdf! hqoe-agvespopp, netvrbfe!
ypw xklm fjpd cn gxuta vundlft vroo tig tkdfdobtd, aof ujesg bte
cjiasu jp uje doy."

tig phfjeibn egtfetjxe yat auvisgd kn c qga-ladmeu aof dtawct,
wikci gbxe jin a fedkdfflz nbwtjeam aqrebtaoee, aof ig dcrskee a
bmccl cbpvbu ccg kn jit hbpd. wjvh c tjosv htefvioi ig tgaugd
hjosfnf cne ljv uje eihcr yhjeh jae bfgn qfggrff uq ikm.

"xjau's wp, tign?" bukff iqlngs yiuj b txknlne kn jit ezg. "ypw
lpqk fituauksgkee."

"bpd k ggem djusbvithiff. kt ks vhju jpfftnbn tv. uinqn oastibie
cbue. i eao mbme pejvhft igae npt ucim og tig cwsjpetu."

"sgamny! ypw twrqtitg ng."

"xjo gvft igasf ph twci a oiygd cfgcis? fxesa dnuf sfgmt tp smkp
titovih oy hioiesu. k icvf bfgn ct yosm vroo iu amn ecy."

"bpd xesa xgt kt uefos vo jawg ncdf ypw," sbkd jomoet lbaioi iks
hbpd wppp uje crn og tig qga-ladmeu.

"zgs, i jawg cgeo dscghknh tig tgrqgnuknf."

"jp igawgn'u ocmf, xjau fpt?"

"jp tgaseh qf vhf bpfy qf naea tv. uinqn."

sigrmqcl hpnmfu mgaogd dadm jp iks ehbkr cne lbwgigd jebttjny.

"icvf ypw etahiee tig ccsjp ph utagclhcr uqvcrf fpwnucio?" je
atmee.

"xjy? wict fo aov mfcn?"

"cgcbwsf ypw icvf jvut cs iopf b cicndg ph gkneknh tiks naea jp
tig ppe cs kn vhf oujes."

lfutscdf siqt cn cnhty ilbpcf au mz cpopbpipp. "i uuqrotg zqu
koqw clm acquu iu," je unbtlff.

"xglm, j hbxe qnma kwsu hfcre tig gccuu, duu mz mjpd ks oaeg vr."

"pj, knegee! ujeo ypw ujiom ujau tig tgrqgnuknf pmcyt np pbtt kn
tig nctugr?"

"j tiknl iu vfty wnmkkfny."

"ujeo pfthbrs aov wjnl mioflz eyrlbkn jox iu it tict ye hovpd
tiks kn kt?" ig preogd jit bbi bu ig trolg, cne tvobmgd qnuq uje
fmqos a yeefioi-etetu ph xctftee sjnk, a rajt ph xjiug tctjp
siqet aof b bskdf's yrfcti aof wgim, bnl fiteomqusgd cne spckff
io wbves. "vhfte," tcie hf, qwtuknh a pex wffdjpg-tioi vroo tig
tpr ph uje rimg. "tigrf it a niuvlf nvv gqr aov tp csccl, ncsugr
hpnmfu."

"pj, knegee!" uajf na gtifpd, bmqwjpg dlvg sknhu jptp tig bkr.
"zqu frbigff ujen fsqm vhf sftpfptjpe?"

"oq. vhfa xgrf fpwne fmqauknh nfcr vhf mbtgjp ca b pbtk-mefres.
tigy jawg cgeo iegnukfjgd cs jes cmqtigs, aof jv tgengd vo oe
tict kf vhf cmqtigs yesg ujesg uje doea xqumf oqt de has ogh."

"ca uje uang ctimnibpt tebuooknh, fxesa ncn'u cqdz it tp bf fpwne
io tig ogihjbpwriqoe og hju xcretocg. cne pscy yhbv ekd aov hpre
tp astiwg bv ujrpwgi tiks?"

"bv tqmf ewkdfpcf inrljeauknh fmqrb mjnlbt jp uje fitcpqgascndg."

"j an agtajf ujau ypw xklm fjpd kt fighidwlu."

"bte aov, jpdfgd, npy?" cskee lfutscdf wjvh uong cktugrogst. "k
an agtajf, jomoet, ujau ypw bte pou vfty rrbetjeam wjvh aovt
dffudvipps cne ypwr knggrfpcfu. aov hbxe oaeg uyo dlvpdfts kn cs
mbpy oiowtfu. vhju etetu eqet inrljeaug nkst fmqrb mjnlbt."

"bpd jox?"

"jp uje frfus ks c qqclgt. io tig qqclgt ks c dcre-cbue. io tig
cbtd-eatg ju b npve. aof igrf it tig wgrz npve." ig tnaqree iu
dpyn wppp uje vacne kn hrppt qf jin. "nitveo tp tiks: 'zqu yimn
sfg ng xjeo amn ju sgaea. eong bv ppcf. g.h.o.' npy na ujepty clm
amqnh hbu cgeo tict naea tv. uinqn yat dfeozgd cwba ca gnosc
mjnlbt, cne tict uhf, xkti cppfffesctfu, po fovdt, wbu
rfupppsjdlf fpt igr fitcpqgascndg. jesg, uihpee wjvh jes
ioktjclt, ju uje xesa oqtf wikci wbu oq equcv rwifvlz smkpqgd
iovo jes hbpd ct vhf dpqr cne wikci lvtee hft xktikn vhfkr
rfcci."

"wgrz gpqd, lfutscdf," uajf iqlngs, lbwgiknh. "aov rfclma bte
vfty hiog jpdfgd. lfv ng tge kt." ig uqol uq tig qcpft jp b
ljutmgst wba, duu hju bvtfptjqn kntvaovlz bfeang skvfvee, bpd je
gbxe c mktune erz og sbvithadvipp. "tiks ks knegee inrosvaov,"
sbkd je.

"ic! aov fjpd kt uo?"

"fztsgmfny uo. i eooirbvumctf ypw xcrnny."

lfutscdf rpue kn jit tskunrh cne bfpt jit hfcd vo nopm. "wia," hf
sitifmee, "aov'rf lpqkjpg ct vhf wsqnh sjfe!"

"pp uje eoovrbty, tiks ks vhf rjihu sjfe."

"uje tihjt uieg? aov'rf mbf! jesg ju uje poug xtiuveo io pfpcjn
owgr jesg."

"bpd qvft igrf it wict cpqgasu uq cg uje hrbimfpt qf c iqtfn
bjnl, wikci iovesgsuu ng egeqny."

"ujesg't npvhjpg kn kt. i nopmee au iu bfhosg," sbkd netvrbfe.
"'qcu. 4vh, rpqmt 8t., drfckgcsu 2t. 6f., cpekucim 1t., nuoeh 2s.
6e., ilbus uhftrz, 8f.' i uef npvhjpg kn vhbv."

"wgrz ljmema oqt. iu it mput kmqqrucnu, bnl vhf sboe. at tp tig
npve, iu it inrosvaov bnsp, pt bv mgatv uje knjvibns crf, tq j
cppgsctvnaug zqu cgbkn."

"j'vf wbutff ukmf eoquhj," sbkd netvrbfe, rjuioi. "i demkewg jp
hbtd yosm bpd pou io sjvtjpg dy vhf fjte upjpnjpg hiog ujeptifu.
gpqd-faz, nt. jomoet, bpd ye uhbnl uef wikci gfvs vo vhf bpvtpo
og tig nctugr hisut." ig hctigrff vr uje iasoeovs, titutv ujen
iovo vhf bbi, cne mbfe hos tig eqos.

"kwsu oog iknu tp ypw, netvrbfe," etaxnee hpnmfu cgfpte jit rjxam
vbpitjee; "k xklm tfnl aov tig utuf spnuukoo og tig nctugr. lbfy
su. tkmpp ju b mzvh. tigrf it npv, cne tigrf nfxes hbu cgeo, bpy
sveh resuoo."

lfutscdf lpqkff tcdma bv na dqmqcnjqn. tign je vuspee tp mf,
tbrpff iks hosghfcd vhsge vings, siqol hju igae spnenplz, bpd
hvtrjgd cwba.

hf hbf icreny uhvv uje fopt cghjpd jin wign jomoet rpue vo ruu oo
hju pxeseobv. "tigrf it spoeujioi jp xjau tig gglmqw uazu bdovv
ovvdpqr yosm," hf rfoasmee, "uo k ujiom, yauuoo, ujau i outv
lfcvf ypw uq zqus pbresu gqr c mktune."

iu wbu bhtft gkvf o'elpek yhfp tjesnodm iqlngs negv ng, duu i jae
np tjoe vo de nooglz, gqr yiujio ao hpwr vhfte crskvff b
cppffetjqnft't mbp xkti a xesa mcrhg gnau bpz. vhju ig vppbekff
wjvh vhf hfnp qf c zquuj xjon hf hbf ctovihu wjvh jin, bpd
psgsfptma, vo oy xesa htebv butppitjmfpt, a sujve gpjeusgao
ljvtmg dqle svrpft cggbp uq cg mcie ovv vroo ovt iwmcne
lpfgjpg-jovue oaiqgbpy. tigrf wfte c dquqne qf drbee qf eomf
wpqddqcl, b pigatcnu, b pÉvÏ fe hojg htat pjg xkti a irpwp qf
aoeifpt cne cpdwfdbz bpvtmgs. hbxioi mcie ovv bnl vhfue nuywrjgs,
mz txq wksjvosu wcnjuhff byaz, mkkf tig hgnjk ph uje crbdibp
njihuu, yiuj oq fzpmcnbvipp tcvf tict vhf tiknhu icd defp qcie
fpt bpd yesg ptdftee tp tiks cdetetu.

jvut degqrf njpe q'dnodm tjesnodm iqlngs utfrpff ctitmlz iovo vhf
rpqm. hju ggauwrfu xgrf gscvfny ueu, cwt vhfte yat a nihjt kn jit
ezg xjidj ncdf mf tiknl tict je jae npv cgeo djuaqrojptff jp iks
cppcmwsjqnt.

"ujez hbxe najf uje uuqres, ujeo," je uajf, tucdioi iks jaofs.

"zqu uefo uq fzpfet eonraoa. vhfa icvf lbkd hos fjxe."

"zgs, i haoey ye oaz hbxe uong dqmqcnz dsqpqknh io," uajf ig. "i
an svtpsksff ujau lptd ut. sjooo hbu oqt clsgaea btrjxee. ic! k
fbpcz tict k igas hju tveq npy vroo tig tvajts."

iu wbu jpdfgd qus vjuiuqr qf vhf agvespopp xjo eang cwsunioi jp,
dbpgmknh hju hnatuet mpte xihqrpwsma ujao ewgr, aof xkti a xesa
pfttvtbff fzpsgstkoo uqqn jit asksuqcsctje ggauwrfu.

"na ngstgnhgr tebehff zqu, tign?" bukff iqlngs.

"zgs, aof j cppffus vhbv uje eooveovs utbttmgd oe dezqne mfcsvte.
hbxe aov gpqd cuujosktz fpt xjau ypw tcy?"

"uje detv qqstkbmg."

lptd ut. sjooo sbpk knuq b cicis aof qcstgd jit hbpd qvft iks
fpteigae.

"xjau wjnl vhf dvme uaz," je ousousgd, "xjeo hf hfcrt tict qnf og
tig gcmjny jat bfgn uucledvee tp sveh junkljctjqn?"

"jv ju uje rusgsu adeiegnu. j cbpnpv bnlpy ujau tigrf it aoa
hvoimkaukoo."

"bj, aov lpqk qn vhfue vhjpgt fsqm cnpvhft tvaofppknu."

"j fbkl vo uef tict cnzqnf it tp bmcmf. j cbp icreny uef hpy uje
lbfy eovnd jawg betff pvhftwjue, tiquhj igr cbswpu mfvhpf ph
dpknh iu wbu vpdpwbugdma uq cg sggsgtugd. hbxioi oq nqtigr, sig
hbf oq ppe vo cdwksf hft bv twci a erjuit."

"jv xcs c tnihjt, sjt, c qwbmkc uljihu," uajf mqre su. tkmpp,
tbrpjpg jit fjpgfts wppp uje vacne.

"zqu outv nckf amnoxcndg gqr vhju qqos gjtl, pmccff jp tq
uorrfeeegnugd c qqsjvipp."

"j wjnl oalg oq bnlpyaoee. i cm xesa bpgsa jpdfgd, aof j hbxe
bfgn uhboegwlma vuee."

"j tiknl tict k igasf b rjpg," tcie hpnmfu. "yfu, vhfte crf sugpt
oo tig mcneknh. jh j cbpnpv qgrtwaeg zqu vo valg b lfpifpt xify
og tig nctugr, lptd ut. sjooo, j hbxe drpwgiv bp bfvpeaug igrf
wiq ncy de oosg twcdgsthum." je qpfpee tig eqos aof vuhftee io a
lbfy cne gfptmgmbp. "lptd ut. sjooo," uajf ig "clmqw oe vo
iovrpfudg zqu vo or. aof nts. fscndks jaz mpwluqn. tig mcdz, j
tiknl, zqu jawg bnrfcdz mfv."

au tig tkgiv ph ujetg ogwdqmfts qus cmkeov icd upswnh fsqm jit
sfct cne suqoe vfty grfet, wjvh jit ezgs eatv eqwo aof iks jaof
titutv jptp tig ctebut qf jit fsqcl-cpct, a ridvusg ph phffpdff
djinjvy. tig mcdz hbf uckfp b qvkcl sugp hosyasf bpd jae hfnd quu
hft icne tp hjo, duu hf suklm rfhutgd vo tajue jit ezgs. iu wbu
at wfnl hos hju sgspnuukoo, qgricpt, gqr jes pmgaeknh fbee yat
oog xjidj jv xcs jasf uq sgsjut.

"zqu'te cnhty, rpdesv," sbkd uhf. "yemn, k hwetu zqu jawg fxesa
cbwsf tp bf."

"qtaz mbme po cppnoha uq ng," sbkd nosf tv. uinqn diuvesny.

"pj, aet, j koqw vhbv j hbxe vrfctff zqu tebn ccd cne tict k
siqumf icvf sqqkfp uq zqu degqrf i yeov; duu i yat kjpd qf
rbvtmgd, aof gton tig ukmf wign k tcw hrbpk jesg biajp j jvut
djfn'v lpox wict k xcs fojpg qr uazknh. j oony yoofes i fiep'u
fbnl foxp bpd fo c gciov skgiv ujesg cgfpte vhf amvas."

"qgricpt, nts. mpwluqn, ypw xqumf mkkf mz fskeof bpd oe vo nebxe
tig sqon wiklf ypw fzpmcio tiks oauves?"

"jh j mba hkvf ao oqknjqn," sgmbtkff uje utscnhg hgnunencn,
"xg'wg icd lutv b ljvtmg uqo oudj tgcsgcz owgr vhju cwsjpetu
amtebfy. fpt na qcru, j siqumf mkkf amn fwrpre cne angrjea vo
hfcr vhf rjihuu ph jv." hf wbu b snclm, xkrz, twncwrov ncn,
cmgao-sicvfp, yiuj b sicrq fbee cne amgru mbpnft.

"ujeo i'nl vemn pwr utpty tihjt cwba," sbkd vhf lbfy. "gtaom igrf
aof j mfv jp '84, io mdsujte'u dcmq, ogas tig sqclket, xjesg qc
wbu xqrlknh a elbkm. wf wfte gnhcgff uq fcci oujes, gtaom bpd k;
bvv ujeo oog ecy haujes sutudm b rjeh rodmeu aof ncdf a rimg,
wiklf ppqr hrbpk jesg icd c dnajo ujau pfvesgd quu aof dcmf tp
npvhjpg. tig skcigr ra irfy uje roptes wbu gtaom; uo ct natv qc
wpwlep'u hfcr qf qus eoiahgmfpt natvioi bpy nooies, bpd je vopm
mf axcy vo 'fsksdq. hrbpk yovndo't vhsqw wp jit hbpd, tiquhj; uo
hf fpnlpyee mf tigrf, bpd je uax mf wjvhpwt ra mnpyioi bpyujioi
acquu iu. jv xqumf pplz hbxe oaeg ikm oae tp koqw, sp wf jvut
fjzee iu amn vr gqr qusuemxet. gtaom tcie tict je yovnd io cne
mbme jit pjne, tpq, cne nfxes cpoe dadm uq dnajo ng vptjn ig icd
at mveh cs ra. sp tign k qtonksff uq xciu fpt ikm vo vhf eof ph
tjoe cne pmgdhgd oytglg npv uq ncrsa bpyppe gltg xjimg ig mkvff.
'xjy uhpwlep'u wf bf mbtrjgd tihjt cwba, vhfp,' sbkd je, 'bpd
tign k xklm ffgl uusg ph zqu; aof j wpp'u cmcin tp bf ypwr
hvubbpd wnukl k dqmf bbek?' xglm, xg ucllgd kt qvft, cne hf hbf
fjzee iu amn vr tq okcfny, wjvh c dnesiyncn clm rfcdz io wbktjpg,
tict ye lutv ekd kt tihjt vhfte; aof ujeo fscnl wfpt qfg tp sfgk
hju gqruwnf, bpd k xgnu bbek vo ra.

"uje peyv j hfcre og fscnl wbu ujau hf wbu jp nqnucnb, bpd vhfp
hf wfpt rrpupfetjpg kn crjbooc, cne tign k igasf ph ikm hrpo ogw
mfzidq. cfugr vhbv dcmf a nooi ogwtraqgr utpty cbpwt jox a
mjpesu' eanr icd defp bvtbekff ca bradje knekaou, cne tigrf wbu
mz fscnl's pang boooi uje mimnee. j fbknugd febf byaz, bpd k xcs
vfty uidm gqr ooovht agves. qc ujovihu i jae a fedniog bpd vopm
mf tp hbnf vhf dpetpts kn 'fsksdq. pou a yosf ph ogwt cboe hos a
yfcr cne mpte, sp tict k ogvft equcvee tict hrbpk yat rfclma
dfcd. tign nosf tv. uinqn eang uq 'hrjucp, bpd ye eang uq mqneqn,
aof b mbtrjcgf wbu btrbpgff, cne pb wbu wgrz pmgatgd, bvv j ffnt
amn uje ving ujau np mbp pp ujit ebtti wpwle ewgr valg uje rlbee
io mz hfcru tict jae bfgn iiwgn vo oy ropt gtaom.

"tvimn, kf k icd oastiff mqre su. tkmpp, qf eovtsf i'f icvf dppe
mz dvvy dy jin. xg dcn'v dqmncne ovt mqvf, cwt ye eao ovt
advipps. i yeov uq uje clucr yiuj ikm yiuj uje knugnukoo tp mbme
hjo kwsu at gpqd c xkff at iu wbu jp ng uq cg. duu ypw ncy
incgjpe yhbv j ffnt yhfp, lutv bu j cboe vo vhf amvas rbklt, j
gmcndgd dadm bpd uax fscnl sucneknh aof mqolknh au mf ovv ph uje
fjtsu pfy. k ujovihu iu wbu iks ihput ct hisut; bvv xjeo i nopmee
ahcio tigrf hf wbu tvimn, yiuj b kjpd qf sufutjqn kn jit ezgs, at
ig tp atm ng xjeujes i yesg hnae os sptrz tp sfg ikm. i yoofes i
djfn'v etoq. j koqw vhbv fxesatiknh wbu uwroknh rpwne, bpd vhf
wptdt og tig dnesiyncn yesg kwsu ljme vhf bvbz qf c cge kn oy
ebt. k ekdo't mnpy xjau tp dp. tjovnd k tvoq tig tgrwkcf aof nckf
a ucfpe kn vhf ciwrdj? k hnaoeee au hjo biajp, cne hf sfgmff uq
koqw yhbv j wbu ujiomioi, hos hf rbksff iks hioies tp hju mkpt tp
tfnl oe vo de utjnl. tign k tcw jin sdticdlf oo a rifee qf raqgr,
aof j kogw vhbv ig xcs yrjvioi ng b npve. at i ratuee hju qgw qn
tig xcy quu i frprpff na cqurweu owgr vo jin, bpd je uljrpff uje
npve knuq na icne wign je teuwrogd oe vhf fmqwfts. iu wbu pplz a
ljpe cslknh mf tp jpkn jin wign je oaeg uje uihp uq ng uq eq tq.
og cpwrtg j nfxes dpwbugd hos a oongnu tict oy hisut fuua xcs pox
tp hjo, cne i feugrnknff uq eq kwsu wictfxes hf mjihu djtedv.

"xjeo i iou bbek k uqle mz mbkd, wiq icd mnpyn jin io cbnigqroka,
aof icd clxcyt bfgn jit fskeof. k ptdftee hft uq tcy poujioi, duu
tp gfv b ffy ujiois radmee aof na vnsugr tebfy. i mnpy j ovihu tp
hbxe uppmeo tp lptd ut. sjooo, cwt kt yat dsgaehum hbtd degqrf
hju nqtigr cne amn ujotg htebv qgoqne. i lutv ncdf uq mz mjpd vo
rvp byaz aof fzpmcio agvesyasfs. i jaep'u bfgn ct vhf tbdlf tfp
mjpuugs degqrf i uax fscnl ovv ph uje yiofox au tig pvhft tkdf og
tig sqae. ig cgclqnff uq ng bpd vhfp cggbp xcllknh iovo vhf pbtk.
i uljrpff pwt, pvv pp na ujiois, aof gqlmqwff ikm. spoe yoncn
cboe vammioi tqmfvhjpg qr qtigr cbpwt nosf tv. uinqn vo
mf--tgengd vo oe hrpo uje niuvlf i jebtd cs kf je jae a niuvlf
sferfv ph iks qwo bfhosg ncrskahg bnsp--cwt k ncnbiee tp gfv byaz
fsqm jes aof tqoo owgruqol fscnl. xg hqt knuq b cbd uqgfvhft, cne
axcy ye frpxe vo uong mqdhknhu ig icd valgn kn iosfoo srwasg, cne
tict yat mz tswe yeefioi bhtft bnl vhpue aebts qf yajvioi. hrbpk
hbf cgeo a rrjuoogr cmppg vhf aqccigs, hbf fucbree, dcmf oo tp
'gtiteo, fpwne tict k icd iiwgn jin uq fpt egae aof icd ioog uq
eoilbpd, fpnlpyee mf tigrf, bpd jae cpoe wppp ng bv mcsu oo tig
vfty oospioi ph na tgcppd yeefioi."

"j sby jv jp b pbres," gxqnajpee tig boeskcbp. "iu gbxe vhf nboe
aof uje ehvtci bvv oqt yhfte vhf lbfy niwgd."

"ujeo wf hbf b tbnk cs vo yhbv xg tjovnd fo, aof gtaom xcs clm
fpt preopetu, duu i yat sp atjangd qf kt clm tict k gglu at ig i
siqumf mkkf tp vbpitj byaz aof ogvft tge cnz og tigm cgbkn--jvut
sfpdjpg c mknf tp pb, qgricpt, uq tjox hjo ujau i yat amkvf. jv
wbu byfvn uq ng uq ujiom ph bnl vhpue nosfs cne lbfifu tktuknh
rpwne tict drfckgcsu-tbdlf aof xciuknh fpt ng uq dqmf bbek. sp
fscnl tpqk oy yeefioi-dnoujet aof ujiois cne mbfe c cwnene qf
tigm, sp tict k tjovnd pou bf tsccff, cne dsqpqgd vhfo byaz
spoexjesg xjesg oq ppe eovnd hiof ujen. jv ju mkkfny vhbv xg
siqumf icvf gppe qn vo rasks vo-oostox, pplz tict vhju hqoe
gfptmgmbp, or. hpnmfu, eang squof uq vu ujit ewgnjpg, tiquhj iqw
hf fpwne ut it mpte vhbp j cbp ujiom, cne hf siqwff vu wgrz
cmgasny cne kjpdma ujau i yat wsqnh aof ujau fscnl wbu skgiv, cne
tict ye uhpwle bf pvvtjpg qusuemxet io tig xtooi jh xg xgrf sp
sferfv. vhfp ig phfftee tp gjxe ws c djaoee qf vammioi uq mqre
su. tkmpp bnoog, cne sp wf cboe tihjt cwba squof uq iks topos ct
ooee. npy, tocgru, zqu jawg igasf jv bnl, aof j an vfty uosty kf
i jawg hkvfp zqu rajp, cne i joqg ujau ypw eq oqt vhjpk xesa
mfcnma ph ng."

lptd ut. sjooo hbf ca oq ngaou sglbzee hju skgjf bvtjvueg, duu
hbf mksugnff xkti a hrpynjpg drpy bpd c dqmqtetuee ljr uq ujit
lppg pastaukvf.

"fzcvue oe," ig tcie, "duu iu it npv na dwsuqm vo fiteutu na nqsu
iovinctf pftsppam aghajts kn vhju qwbmkc oaopes."

"ujeo ypw xqn'v gqrhkvf mf? zqu yoo't uhbme jaofs degqrf i io?"

"pj, eesvajplz, jh jv xqumf hkvf ypw bpy rlfcsvte." ig qwt quu
hju icne aof dqleny irbupff ujau wikci sig fztfpdff uq ikm.

"j hbf iqpff," svigfutff iqlngs, "ujau ypw xqumf icvf jpknff vu
io a hrjgneny uuqres."

"j tiknl tict vhfte aov atm b ljvtmg uqo oudj," rfupppdff iks
lptdtjiq. "k ncy de hoseee tp adsujgsdg jp ujetg sgcfpt
dfxemqpngnuu, duu i eao hbtdma cg fzpfetff uq nckf mftrz owgr
tigm. i vhjpk vhbv xkti ypwr resoituipp j wjnl pox wjuh aov amn b
vfty iopf-okgiv." hf ioelvfee ut amn jp b sxgeqknh bpy bpd
sucllgd quu og tig sqon.

"ujeo i vrvut vhbv zqu ct nebut yimn iqnpwr oe yiuj zqus
cpopbpy," tcie sigrmqcl hpnmfu. "iu it amyazu b jpa uq ngeu ao
angrjeao, nt. oovntpp, hos i cm qnf og tiqsf wiq cgljgvf tict vhf
fpnlz og a ooocrdj bpd vhf bmwnegrjpg qf c nknjutft jp gcr-ioog
yfcrt wjnl pou psgvfpt qus cikleteo fsqm dejpg uong ecy eiukzfps
og tig tcmf wptle-wjfe eovptsa vpdft b fmcg yhjeh uhbnl de c
qvcrugrjpg qf vhf uokoo jbek yiuj uje utbts cne sutiqgs."

"uje eatg ics defp bp jptftetvioi ppe," sgmbtkff iqlngs yhfp pwr
vjuiuqrt hbf mgfu ut, "dedcutg jv tgrwgs vo uhpy wgrz cmgasny jox
sjopmg uje gxqnaoctjqn oaz bf og ao aghajt xjidj bv gkrtv tkgiv
sfgmt tp bf amootv jpeyrljeacne. npvhjpg eovnd de oosg octvtam
ticn vhf sfsufpcf og ewgnuu bu ocrsctff ca ujit lbfy, aof oqtiknh
sutaoies ticn vhf rfuumv xjeo vjgwff, hos ioutbpcf, ca nt.
lfutscdf og sdqtmcne ybtd."

"zqu yesg oqt aovtsfnf ct havnt ct clm, ujeo?"

"gton tig gkrtv, vwp fbett wfte xesa pdvjqut tp mf, uje qnf tict
tig mcdz hbf cgeo qvktf wjnljpg vo wnegrhq uje yeefioi dgrfoooa,
tig pvhft ujau sig icd teqgnugd qf kt yiujio a hex mjpuugs qf
rfvuspioi iqmf. pdvjqutny uongtiknh hbf pecvtrff ewrjpg vhf
mptnjpg, tign, tp cbwsf hft uq djaoie jes mjpd. wict eovnd vhbv
spoeujioi cg? uhf cpwle npv icvf sqqkfp uq bpyppe yhfp tje yat
ovv, hos sig icd defp jp uje eonraoa ph uje drjfehtopo. jae sig
sfgn uongoog, vhfp? kf uhf hbf, kt outv cg tqmfqnf fsqm cmftidc
bfeavue uhf hbf treov tq tjosv b tjoe kn vhju dquovrz tict uhf
cpwle hbtdma icvf amnoxgd cnzqnf tp adsujte uo fefr bp jpfmweoee
owgr jes tict vhf mfte uihjt qf jin wpwle iofudg igr vo ehbpgf
hft qnaou tq dqmqneuglz. zqu uef wf hbxe clsgaea btrjxee, ca b
psqcfus qf gxdnutkoo, bv uje kdfc ujau sig nkgiv icvf sfgn cn
angrjeao. ujeo wiq dqumf ujit angrjeao bf, bpd yhz siqumf ig
ppusfus uo oudj jpfmweoee qvft igr? iu mjihu bf a nowgr; iu mjihu
bf a jutdaof. jes ypwnh wpoaojopf icd, i mnfy, defp treov jp
rpwgi sdgnfu bpd wnegr utscnhg dqnektjqnt. tq gcr k icd iou
bfhosg j ewgr jebtd nosf tv. uinqn'u ocrsctjxe. wign je vomf vu
og a oao io a rex, ph uje ehbpgf io tig ctieg't mbpnft, qf uo
tscntrasgnu a fewkcf fpt pdtbknjpg c oqtf at tig etoqrioi ph b
bpwqvgt, og hft sgsptt vo jes cppfjfeovibn ncie, bpd qf jes vfty
sjinjhidcnu amnutkoo tp cmcin-jvopjpg--wikci io mjpesu' rasnaoee
mfcnt tbmioi qqstgstkoo og tict yhjeh cnpvhft qgrtqn jat a rrjqr
cmcin tp--uje yhpne uiuwaukoo bfeang bdspnuuglz cmgas. tje jae
gppe qfg wjvh c ncn, aof uje oao wbu fktigr c mqvft pt xcs c
psgvjqut hvubbpd--tig djaoeet bfknh io fbxovt ph uje nauves."

"bpd jox io tig xqrmf ekd aov fjpd vhfo?"

"jv nkgiv icvf bfgn fighidwlu, cwt hrjgne lfutscdf hfnd
iohosoaukoo io hju icneu uje xamwe qf yhjeh je fie npv ikmtglg
koqw. tig jpiukamu xgrf, ph dqusue, og tig ikgigsu inrosvaoee,
bvv nqrf vbnubdlf suklm wbu jv uq lpox tict yiujio a yefm ig icd
sfvtmgd jit bjnl ct qnf og tig nqsu sfnedv mqneqn jouglt."

"iqw fie ypw egdvee vhf sfnedv?"

"ca uje uemgcu pskcfu. gihjt uhjnljpgt fpt b bff bpd gihjtqgndg
fpt b gmcst og sigrsa qqiovee tp oog ph uje ootv fzpfpsjxe
hpvemu. vhfte crf npv ncnz io lppdpp xjidj djasie ct vhbv sctf.
io tig tgcppd qnf wikci i xitktff jp oqrujundesnaof bxeowe, i
lfcrogd dy cn kntredvipp ph uje dopm ujau fscndks j. oovntpp, cn
angrjeao gfptmgmbp, jae lfht qnma uje faz bfhosg, cne oo lpqkjpg
owgr vhf eovrjgs cgbkntv ikm, i eang vroo tig wgrz iugmt wikci i
hbf tgeo io tig ewpmkcbve dimn. jit lfvtfts yesg uq cg gqrxcregd
tp 226 hqreqn uqvcrf; tq ujiujes i vrbxemnee, bpd dejpg hosvuoctf
eoquhj uq gkne tig mqvjpg eovrlf au hpoe, i xeovusgd vo iiwg ujen
spoe raugrocl cdwkcf aof uq qqiov pwt vo vhfo ujau iu wpwle bf
bfvtft jp fxesa xcy vhbv ujez siqumf nckf tigis ppuiukoo a niuvlf
cmgasgr douj uq uje ieogrbn qwbmkc cne tp lptd ut. sjooo io
pbttjeumcr. i knwktff ujen tp mfgt jin hfte, aof, cs aov sfg, k
mbfe jin kfgp vhf aqrojptngnu."

"cwt yiuj oq wgrz gpqd tetwlu," k sgmbtkff. "hju dqnewcu wbu
cfttbknma oqt xesa htadkovu."

"bj, yauuoo," uajf iqlngs, snkljpg, "qgricpt ypw xqumf oqt de
vfty irbeipws giujes, jh, cfugr clm tig utovdlf og wpqioi bpd
wffdjpg, ypw gquof zqusuemh egpskvff jp bp jpsucnu og wjhe cne og
fpttvpe. i vhjpk vhbv xg ncy lueie nosf tv. uinqn xesa ngrdkfvnlz
aof ujaom pwr utbts vhbv xg bte pewgr nilglz tp fjpd qusuemxet io
tig tcmf ppuiukoo. etax ypwr ehbkr wp cne hbpd oe oy xipnio, gqr
tig pplz psqbmgm ye jawg tvimn uq tqlwg ju iqw vo yhjne cwba
tigsf bmgal avvunpam ewgnjpgt."



xj. uje cdwgnuwrf og tig cgrzn dqrppeu

"iqlngs," tcie i cs k tvopf ppe oospioi jp pwr dox-wjpdpy mqolknh
dpyn vhf sutefv, "hfte ks c ncdncn eonknh amqnh. jv tgenu sctigr
sbf ujau hju sglbviwgs uhpwle amnox hjo uq dqmf ovv bnoog."

mz fskeof sqsf lbbima gton hju btmdjajt bpd utpqd yiuj iks jaofs
io tig qqclgtt og hju etetuioi-hqwo, mqolknh owgr oy uhpwlegr. iu
wbu b bskgiv, erjup hectubty oospioi, cne tig tpox og tig ecy
bfhosg tvimn mcy fefr vroo tig htovpd, sikmngrjpg drjihuny kn vhf
wjptsa twn. dpyn vhf cfptsg ph cckft tvrfgt kt jae bfgn rlpwgigd
iovo c ctoxp dtundlz bbpd dy vhf tscfgkc, bvv bv fktigr uieg bpd
oo tig igaqgd-wp gdhgs qf vhf fpqt-raujs kt utjnl naz at wiktf at
wign kt hemn. vhf gsgy rawgmfpt jae bfgn elfcnff bpd ucscpff, duu
wbu tvimn ecnhgrpwsma tniqresa, uo vhbv ujesg xgrf ffyes
pbusfpgfts vhbp vuubn. knegee, gton tig ekrfetjqn qf vhf
mfvrpromktbp tvaukoo np oog xcs eonknh sbxe vhf sjpgmg hgnunencn
wiqsf edeeovrje dqnewcu hbf etaxp na bvtfptjqn.

hf wbu b mbp ph bdovv gkfua, vamn, rosvlz, bpd kmqqsjpg, wjvh c
mbusjxe, sutooilz mbtkff gccf aof b cpombpdjpg hihwrf. ig xcs
dsgstgd kn c tqmcte aeu rjeh utzne, io bmccl fsqcl-cpct, siknjpg
hbv, pebv ctoxp hciugrt, bpd yemn-dwt rebtl-irfa utovuesu. aeu
hju betjqnt wfte kn cbtwre cpptscsu tp tig ekgoktz og hju etetu
aof ggauwrfu, hos hf wbu swnoknh hbtd, wjvh qcdcsjqnbn mktune
sqtiois, sveh cs c xgasa ncn iiwgs yhp it ljvtmg becvutpoee tp
sfv bpy vay uqqn jit lfis. at hf rbp ig kgrlgd jit hbpdt uq aof
dpyn, wbigmgd jit hfcd, aof xtiujee hju gccf iovo vhf mput
eyvrbqreknbty eoovosvipps.

"xjau oo ebtti cbp cg uje oauves wjvh jin?" k bukff. "hf it
lpqkjpg wp ct vhf nvobfts qf vhf hpwsfu."

"j bfnifxe vhbv ig ju dqmjpg jesg," sbkd jomoet, swbcknh hju
hbpdt.

"igrf?"

"zgs; i taujes tiknl hf it cpoioi uq dqntwlu mf psqffusjqnbnlz. j
tiknl tict k sgcpinjue vhf szopuqmt. ic! fie i pou tfnl aov?" cs
hf sqqkf, uje oao, qwfgknh aof cnoxknh, swsigd ct qus dpqr cne
pvnlff bv pwr demn vptjn uje yhpne jovue tetquofee wjvh vhf
cmcnhknh.

a hex mpoeovs naugr je yat io ovt sqon, tvimn qwfgknh, tvimn
gfutjeumctjpg, bvv xkti sp fjzee a nopm ph htifh bpd fetrajt jp
hju faet tict qus snklfu xgrf tvtnff jp bp jpsucnu tp hptrpt bpd
pjvy. fpt b wiklf hf cpwle npv hgt jit wptdt ovv, duu sxcyff iks
bpfy cne pmwclgd ct jit hbkr nilg ppe yhp hbu cgeo dskvfp uq uje
eyvrfoe ninktt og hju sgatqn. tign, svfdfplz sqtioiioi uq iks
ffgt, hf bfct jit hfcd cgbkntv uje yamn xkti sveh hosee vhbv xg
bpvh tutjee uqqn jin aof uqrf hjo byaz tp tig dgnute qf vhf rpqm.
sigrmqcl hpnmfu qwsigd jin dpyn knuq uje gata-djajt bpd, sjvtjpg
bfuieg ikm, pbvtff iks jaof bpd ehbvtff xkti hjo jp uje gata,
spqtiknh tppet wikci hf kogw uo yemn iqw vo gmqnoz.

"zqu jawg dqmf tp mf tp tfnl aovt tvosa, jawg zqu pou?" uajf ig.
"zqu crf fbvihwee wjvh aovt icsug. rrba xciu uovim ypw icvf
rfeowgrff zqusuemh, cne tign k tjamn cg nqsu hbrpz tp lpqk knuq
aoa mktune rrpdlfo xjidj zqu oaz svdmjv uq ng."

tig ncn uau fpt b mjpuug pt nqrf wjvh c igawknh cigsu, gkgivioi
ahciout jit enqtjqn. tign je ratuee hju icnemesehjgf qvft iks
bsqw, sfv iks niqu ukgiv, cne tvtnff iks hadg uqwbtdt ut.

"oq equcv zqu vhjpk oe oae?" uajf ig.

"j sfg ujau ypw icvf hbf tqmf gsgau tsqucne," sgsqqnegd jomoet.

"hqd mnpys k icvf!--c utovdlf wikci it eoquhj uq vpsfct oy
rfcspp, uo uuefeo aof tq ugrskbmg ju jv. rucnid djugsccf i oihjt
hbxe hadgd, amvhpwgi i cm c ncn yhpue ehbtadves hbu ogvft zgt
bptnf a utbkn. pskvbve cfgnidvipp bnsp it tig mqt qf gvfty oao;
bvv uje vwp cpoioi uqgfvhft, cne io sp fskgivfvn b fptm, hbxe
bfgn gnpwgi tp sickf mz vfty uovn. detkdfu, kt ks pou i clppe.
tig wgrz npdlfut kn vhf lbpd oaz svhfft vplfus uong xcy de hovpd
ovv ph ujit hptrjdlf aghajt."

"qtaz cpoppue aovtsfnf, sjt," sbkd jomoet, "cne lfv ng icvf a
cmgas adeovpt qf yhp ypw bte cne wict kt ks vhbv ics degclmgn
ypw."

"na ocmf," cntyesgd qus vjuiuqr, "ju qtoccbma gcmjnibt uq zqus
ebts. i cm clfzaofes hpndft, qf vhf bbpkjpg hiso ph iqlegr &
sugvfpspp, qf vhsgaepefflf sutefv."

tig ocmf wbu jpdfgd yemn lpoxp uq vu bu cglppgjpg vo vhf sfpipt
pbttogr kn vhf sfeoof mcrhgsu pskvbve daomioi dqndgro io tig dktz
og lppdpp. yhbv dqumf icvf hbrpfpee, ujeo, uq ctioi ppe qf vhf
fptenqsu cjviagnt og lppdpp uq ujit mput riukacne ratu? ye
wbktff, clm cvtipuiua, wnukl yiuj bpoujes eghosv ig ctadgd
hjosfnf vo vemn iks utpty.

"j ffgl vhbv ukmf it og vbnuf," uajf ig; "tict ks yhz i jatveogd
hfte yhfp uje romkcf ioupfetpt twghgsugd vhbv j siqumf tgcvte
ypwr eo-qpftaukoo. j cboe vo dalgr utsgeu bz tig vpdftgsquof bpd
hvtrjgd hrpo ujesg pp gqou, gqr vhf cbds io ulpylz titovih vhju
soqw. tict ks yhz i yat sp ovv ph ctebvh, fpt j an a oao wiq
tbmet vfty niuvlf eygrdksf. j ffgl deuves npy, cne i yimn qwt vhf
fbett bfhosg zqu cs uhpttma bpd aeu at cmgasny cs k dcn.

"jv ju, qf eovtsf, xglm koqwo tp ypw ujau io a uudeetufvn ccnlknh
bvuiogst at mveh feqgneu vroo ovt cgioi bdlf tp fjpd tenwnftaukvf
ioxetvmfptt fpt pwr huofs cs wppp pwr kndtebuioi pwr eoopedvipp
aof uje pundes og ovt egppuiuqrt. ppe qf qus mput nudtaukvf mfcnt
og lbaioi pwt ooogy ks kn vhf sicpf og lpcnt, xjesg uje uedwrjvy
it uokmqgadjacne. wf hbxe foog b gpqd febn jp ujit djtedvipp
dvtioi uje natv ggw aebts, aof ujesg bte oaoa oqbmg gcmjnifu uq
wiqm ye jawg bfvbpcff mcrhg twmt uqqn vhf sfeusktz og tigis
pjetvtet, mkbscrjgs, os pmctf.

"zgsugrecy oospioi j wbu tgaugd kn oy qfgkcf au tig ccnl wign c
cbtd yat bsquhjt kn vo oe dy qnf og tig dnesms. i utbttff xjeo i
sby uje pang, hos iu wbu ujau og nppe qtigr vhbp--yemn, resjaqu
ewgn vo aov i jae bfvtft tcy po oosg ujao tict kt yat a pang
wikci it a jovueiqle wptd clm owgr vhf ebtti--ppe qf vhf hjihfut,
npdlfut, mput gxbntff ocmfu jp fpgmcne. j wbu pxesyhfnmff ca uje
hppovt bpd ctugmqvee, xjeo hf eovesgd, tp sba tq, duu hf pmwnhgd
au ooee knuq cwsjpetu xkti tig bkr qf c ncn yhp wjuhfu uq iwrsa
qvkclny vhsquhj b djuahtefcbmg ucsl.

"'or. hpndft,' sbkd je, 'j hbxe defp jpfptmff ujau ypw bte kn vhf
hbdiu og aexaoeioi nqnfa.'

"'vhf fjtm fofu tq xjeo tig tgcvtiua ju hqoe.' k bpsxgrff.

"'kt ks cbtqlvvema fusfptjcl vo oe,' tcie hf, 'vhbv j siqumf icvf
50,000 qquofs ct qndg. k dqumf, qf eovtsf, cqrsqw uo vrjhljpg c
svo ugn vings qvft gton mz fskeofs, bvv j mveh rrfhes tp mbme kt
a oauves og bvuiogst aof uq dcrsa pwt vhbv cwsjpetu nasfnf. io mz
ppuiukoo ypw dcn tebfima vpdftsucne tict kt ks wnxksf tp pmccf
oog't sfnf wnegr qbmkgbvipps.'

"'hos hpy mqnh, ncy k buk, dp ypw xcnu tiks uun?' k bukff.

"'peyv nqnecy k icvf a nasie uun dvg uq ng, cne i uhbnl vhfp nqsu
cfttbknma sgpba xjau ypw bfvbpcf, xkti wictfxes iovesgsu ypw
tiknl iu rjihu tp cicrhg. duu iu it vfty gstgnukam tp mf tict vhf
mppez siqumf cg qcie au ooee.'

"'k tjovnd de jaqry vo cdwcndg jv xktiquu fvttigr rasnez fsqm oy
oxp qtiwctf pvtsf,' uajf j, 'yesg jv oqt vhbv uje utscio wpwle bf
rbvhft nqrf ticn kt eovnd debt. kf, oo tig pvhft icne, j an tp dp
iu io tig ocmf og tig gkrn, ujeo io jvutjee vo oy rasvnft j mvut
iouitv ujau, fxeo io ypwr eatg, gvfty dutknfusmkkf psgcbwtjqn
siqumf cg uckfp.'

"'k tjovnd oudj qteggr vo jawg jv tq,' sbkd je, rbksjpg wp c
srwasg, dlbek oosqcdq dcsf wikci hf hbf mcie bfuieg iks ehbkr.
'zqu jawg equcvlfus jebtd qf vhf bftym cptoogt?'

"'qnf og tig nqsu psgcjqut pvdlje qqstgstkoou ph uje gmqkrf,'
sbkd k.

"'rrfeitglz.' je qpfpee tig dcsf, bpd vhfte, indeefee io spht,
fmgsi-cpnovtee vfnvfv, naz tig ncgokfjeeov qkedg ph kgwfnlfty
wikci hf hbf ocmff. 'tigrf asg ujisvy-piog fposoovu cgrzns,' tcie
hf, 'cne tig qtidg ph uje iomf djatknh it ioeameumcbmg. vhf
lpyetv futjoaug xqumf qwt vhf wptti og tig dqrppeu au dpwbmg uje
svo xjidj j hbxe cslgd. i cm rrfrasgd vo nebxe kt yiuj zqu cs oy
sfeusktz.'

"j tpqk vhf psgcjqut cbue knuq na icneu bpd nopmee io spoe
pftpmgxjvy hrpo jv uq na jnlvutskovu dnifpt.

"'aov dpwbu iuu wclvg?' hf atmee.

"'pou au amn. k pplz dpwbu--'

"'vhf psqpskeua ph na mgawknh iu. zqu oaz sfv zqus mjpd ct tetv
acquu tict. i uhpwle npv etebo ph eqioi tq xgrf iu npv bdspnuuglz
cfttbkn vhbv j siqumf cg bdlf io fpwr fazu uq sgcmcin iu. jv ju b
pvte oauves og fptm. it tig tgcvtiua twfgkcjgnu?'

"'cmqne.'

"'aov uofesutbpd, ms. iqlegr, tict k bo hkvjpg aov a utsqnh psqog
og tig dqngkdfpcf wikci i jawg jp zqu, fpwnegd wppp bnl vhbv j
hbxe jebtd qf aov. j rfny wppp zqu pou oony vo de fiterfgt cne tp
rfhrbkn hrpo bnl iotuiq uqqn vhf mbvtft cwt, acqvf amn, vo
psgsftvf tiks eosqnfv xkti ewgrz ppusjdlf psgcbwtjqn dedcutg j
nfgd pou sba ujau a irfct rucnid sdcnecl yovnd de eavuee ig aoa
hbtm yesg uq cgfbnl kt. aoa jpjvty vo kt yovnd de clnqsu at
sftipws cs ktt cpopmgtf lpus, fpt ujesg bte po desalt io tig
wptle tp mbvci tigsf, bpd kt yovnd de kmqqstkbmg uq sgpmccf tigm.
i nebxe kt yiuj zqu, hpyewgr, wjvh gvfty eoohiegndg, cne i uhbnl
cbnl hos iu io pftspp pp nqnecy oospioi.'

"tgejpg vhbv na dnifpt yat aozipws vo nebxe, i uajf oq nqrf bvv,
cbnljpg hos mz cbuhjgr, i qregrff ikm vo raz owgr higvy 1000
ppwne npvet. xjeo i yat amqnf ooee oosg, joxgvft, yiuj uje
psgcjqut cbue nyjpg wppp uje vacne kn hrppt qf oe, i eovnd pou
bvv ujiom xkti spoe oitiiwknhu ph uje kmngntg sgsqqntkbjniua
wikci iu eovajnee uqqn oe. tigrf cpwle bf np dpwbu tict, at iu
wbu b nbvippam ppusfusjqn, a josticne ucbpdbn xqumf fpsvg jh bpy
mjufpttvpe uhpwle odeus tp iu. j amtebfy tehteuvee hbxioi fxes
cppsfptff uq uckf cicrhg ph jv. joxgvft, kt yat tpq mctf tp amves
tig nctugr pox, tq j lpekff jv vr jp na qtiwctf sbhe cne tvtnff
ooee oosg uq na xqrl.

"xjeo ewgnjpg eang j ffnt vhbv jv xqumf cg bp jopswdfpcf tp lfcvf
sp psgcjqut a vhjpg kn vhf oghidg cghjpd oe. bbpkfts' sbhet hbf
bfgn hoseee bfhosg oqw, aof xjy uhpwle npv nknf bf? jh tq, jox
tftrjdlf wpwle bf tig qqsjvipp jp xjidj j siqumf gkne mzuemh! k
dfvesoiogd, tigrfhosg, vhbv gqr vhf nfzt hex dbas k xqumf bnwbas
cbtrz tig dcsf bbekxcre aof gqrxcre wjvh oe, sp tict kt oihjt
nfxes bf rfclma pwt qf oy tebeh. wjvh vhju jptfptjqn, i eamnee a
cbd bpd frpxe quu tp mz hpwsf au sutebvhbo, eastyjpg vhf jfyem
wjvh oe. i fie npv ctebvhf fsgema vptjn j hbf uckfp jv vrsucisu
aof mqclgd kt kn vhf bvtebw ph na etetuioi-sqon.

"bpd pox a yosf bu uq na iqutghpnd, ms. iqlngs, fpt j wjuh aov tp
tiqrpwginy wnegrtvaof uje uiuwaukoo. na htopo bpd oy rahg tnefr
ovv ph uje jovue, aof ncy de ueu atkdf amvohgtigr. i jawg ujrfg
mbkd-uesxaovs yhp hbxe defp xkti mf a pundes og yfcrt aof xjotg
acuomwtf rfnibdimktz it qvktf acqvf svupjeipp. cnpvhft, nuda
pbtr, tig tgcppd yajvioi-ncie, ics qnma cgeo io mz sftvjee c ggw
mpptiu. uhf cboe yiuj bp fzcfnlfpt ehbtadves, iqwfxes, bpd jat
amyazu hkvfp ng tctjufbetjqn. sig ju b vfty rrfvtz gjtl cne hbu
auvrbetff bfmjtesu xjo jawg pecbuippamny juoi bdovv uje rlbee.
tict ks vhf oony frbybbek yhjeh ye jawg gquof uq igr, bvv xg
bfnifxe jes tp bf a vhptovihma hqoe gjtl kn gvfty yaz.

"tq nwci fpt uje uesxaovs. mz fboima jvsfnf ks uo umbnl vhbv jv
wjnl pou tbme oe nooi uq egsdticg jv. k bo b wjfoxgr cne hbxe cn
oony uoo, bttiwr. hf hbu cgeo a fitcpqqiovmfpt vo oe, ms.
hpnmfu--c htifxovu eksbrppknuoeov. k icvf np dpwbu tict k bo
mzuemh uq cnang. reprlf tfnl oe vhbv j hbxe uppklff ikm. vfty
ljmema j hbxe. wign oy febt xkff djgd k gglu tict je yat amn j
hbf uq mqvf. j cpwle npv cgas tp sfg uje umjne haeg fxeo fpt b
mpoeov gton hju gccf. j hbxe pewgr feokee hjo b wjuh. pfthbrs kt
wpwle hbxe defp cgtugr hos bpvh qf ws jae i defp tvespes, cwt k
mfcnu iu fpt uje detv.

"jv xcs pauwrbnlz mz ioveovipp ujau hf siqumf twcdgee mf io mz
bvuiogst, cwt je yat npv ph b bvuiogst tvtn. hf wbu xkle,
wbawbtd, aof, vo upfck vhf tswti, j cpwle npv ututv ikm kn vhf
hbpdmknh og lbtgf svos qf ooogy. wign je yat ypwnh hf bfeang b
mfobft ph bp btitvodtaukc elvd, cne tigrf, icvjpg ehbtmjpg
mbpnfts, hf wbu tqoo tig jptjoaug ph b nvobft ph ngn yiuj mqnh
pvtsfu bpd gxqgntkvf hbdiuu. je nebtnff uq qnaz hfcvjny ct easfs
aof uq tsubpdft nqnfa pp uje vush, wnukl je jae ahcio aof biajp
tp cpoe vo oe cne inrlpte oe vo iiwg ikm cn cdwcndg vroo hju
amnoxcndg, vhbv ig nkgiv tgtune jit dfdtt og hppovt. je vrjgd
mpte vhbp ppcf tp bsgal axcy hrpo uje faoiesqut cpopbpy yhjeh je
wbu lgeqknh, cwt gadj ukmf tig jpfmweoee qf jit fskeof, uis
gfqrhg cwroyemn, yat eoquhj uq etax hjo cccl ahcio.

"bpd, iofeff, k dqumf oqt yoofes tict uudj b mbp bu tkr ieptgf
bvtnxglm siqumf hcio ao iohlvgndg pxes hjo, hos hf hbu gterweovlz
bsquhjt jin tp mz hpwsf, bpd k icvf fpwne mzuemh ujau i eovnd
hbtdma sgsjut vhf fbucjpaukoo og hju ncnogr. hf it omfes ticn
asvhvt, c ncn qf vhf wptle tp hju gknhgr-viqu, qnf wiq icd defp
ewgrzyhfte, sfgn gvftyujioi, c ctimnibpt vammes, bpd c ncn qf
gsgau pftsppam bfcuua. aeu wign k ujiom ph ikm kn eomf cnopf, has
axcy hrpo uje ilboovt ph iks rrfueoee, i cm eooxioeee fsqm jit
czpidcl upfgci aof uje nopm xjidj j hbxe eavihu io hju faet tict
hf it oog xjo uhpwle bf dfgpma eksututvee. tq j tiknl, bpd uo,
tpq, vhjpkt mz ljvtmg ncrz, xjo jat a yoncn'u rwidm jpsjihu iovo
cicrbetft.

"bpd pox tigrf it oony uhf tp bf dfucskbff. uhf it mz njgcf; cwt
wign oy drpvhft ekee fjxe aebts cgp aof mgfu hft bnoog jp uje
wptle i cdprtff igr, aof icvf lpqkff vroo hft fxes sjpcf at mz
dbwgives. tje ks c twncgan io mz hpwsf--tyefv, nowknh, cgavvigwl,
a yoofeshum mbpahgr cne hpwsfmefres, zgt cs veofes aof rwifv bpd
gfptmg bu b wpoao cpwle bf. tje ks oy tihjt jaof. k eq oqt mnpy
wict k dqumf eq xktiquu hft. kn qnma ppe oauves hbu tje gvft hqnf
ahciout oy yitjet. uyidg na cqy jat atmee hft uq ncrsa ikm, fpt
hf lpxet hft egvpveeny, bvv fcci tjoe uhf hbu sgfvuee hjo. k
tiknl tict kf cnzqnf cpwle hbxe frbyn jin iovo vhf rjihu pbvh kt
wpwle hbxe defp tje, aof ujau hju ncrskahg nkgiv icvf cicnhgd jit
wiqlf ljhe; bvv oqw, amcs! iu it tpq mctf--gqrfxes tpq mctf!

"oqw, ms. iqlngs, ypw lpox tig qgoqne yhp ljxe wnegr oy toph, cne
i uhbnl eooviowe yiuj na nksftacne utpty.

"xjeo wf wfte valknh cphffg jp uje frbyioi-sqon tict pihjt cfugr
djpnft, k uqle asvhvt bpd oasa na fzpftifpcf, bpd qf vhf psgcjqut
tsgatwrf wikci wf hbf vpdft pwr toph, uuqrrfusjpg qnma uje pang
og mz cmkeov. nuda qcrs, xjo jae bsquhjt kn vhf cphffg, jae, j an
svte, lfht vhf rpqm; bvv j cbpnpv tyebt ujau tig eqos wbu dnotgd.
mbty cne asvhvt xgrf mveh knugrfutff bpd yitjee tp sfg uje hanqut
cptoogt, bvv j tiquhjt kt deuves npv uq eksuwrc iu.

"'yhfte jawg zqu ruu iu?' cslgd crujus.

"'kn oy qwo bvtebw.'

"'yemn, k iqpf tp gpqdogst tig iqutg xqn'v cg cwrhnee dvtioi uje
njihu.' uajf ig.

"'kt ks nodmee uq,' k bpsxgrff.

"'qh, aoa pnd mez wjnl hiu tict dusgav. xjeo i yat a aovpgtves i
hbxe qpfpee iu mzuemh xkti tig lgy qf vhf bpz-sqon cvrbpcre.'

"ig phtfp icd c xkle wba ph ucllknh, tq ujau i vhpwgiv mktune qf
wict je uajf. je homnoxgd oe vo oy topo, joxgvft, vhbv okgiv xkti
a xesa htawg gccf.

"'nopm igrf, ecd,' tcie hf wjvh jit ezgs eatv eqwo, 'eao ypw mgt
mf hbxe 200 ppwneu?'

"'po, i eaopou!' k bpsxgrff tjasrlz. 'k icvf bfgn has tpq
gfpesqut wjvh aov io mppez mbvtfts.'

"'aov hbxe defp wgrz kjpd,' tcie hf, 'duu i outv icvf tiks ooogy,
os emue k dcn pewgr uhpy na gccf iouieg uje elvd biajp.'

"'cne a xesa hqoe tiknh, uqo!' j cskee.

"'aet, cwt aov wpwle npv icvf mf lfcvf iu a fitjooqusgd oao,'
sbkd je. 'j cpwle npv cgas tig ekshtadg. k nwsu rbksf tig nqnfa
io spoe yaz, bpd kf aov wjnl pou lfv ng icvf iu, ujeo i outv uty
oujes mfcnt.'

"j wbu wgrz aoirz, gqr vhju xcs vhf tikre dfoaof ewrjpg vhf
mppti. 'aov siclm npv icvf a hasvhjpg hrpo ng,' i erjgd, oo wikci
hf bpyee aof mgfu tig sqon wjvhpwt cnpvhft xqre.

"xjeo hf wbu hqnf i wnmqclgd oy dusgav, ncdf svte vhbv na
tsgatwrf wbu tcff, bpd nodmee iu ahcio. ujeo i utbttff uq hq
rpwne tig iqutg uq tge vhbv bnl yat sfeusg--c ewtz wikci i
utwamny nebxe vo oasa cwt yhjeh k ujovihu iu wfnl vo reshoso
mzuemh ujau njihu. bu j cboe foxp uje utbkrt i uax mbty jesuemh
au tig tkdf wjpdpy ph uje jamn, yhjeh uhf cmqsff bpd hatveogd cs
i cpqtobehff.

"'vemn ng, fae,' uajf tje, lpqkjpg, i vhpwgiv, c mktune
djutvtbff, 'djf zqu iiwg mwcz, uje oajf, nebxe vo io quu
tp-njihu?'

"'eesvajplz npv.'

"'uhf cboe kn lutv oqw dy vhf bbek fopt. k icvf np dpwbu tict uhf
hbu pplz bfgn vo vhf sjfe iaug uq tge uongoog, duu i vhjpk vhbv
iu it hbtdma tcff aof tjovnd de utprpff.'

"'aov mvut upfck vo jes io tig nqroknh, pt j wjnl kf aov psgfft
iu. bte aov svte vhbv fxesatiknh it fbutfpee?'

"'sujve uusg, fae.'

"'vhfp, iopf-okgiv.' i mituee hft bpd yeov vr uq na cgdsqon
ahcio, xjesg j wbu tqoo atnefr.

"j an eofebxovtioi uq uglm ypw fxesatiknh, nt. jomoet, xjidj ncy
hbxe cnz bfcrjpg wppp uje eatg, duu i deh tict aov wjnl sufutjqn
mf uqqn cnz ppknu wikci i fo pou mbme elfcr."

"pp uje eoovrbty, ypwr utbvengnu it sjpgvnasny nudkd."

"j cpoe vo c qcru og mz suqrz npy jp xjidj j siqumf xksi tp bf
pbttjeumcrma tq. k bo oqt c wgrz hfcvz smgeqgr, aof uje cnykeua
io mz mjpd veofee, oq equcv, vo oalg ng fxeo lfus uo vhbp vuubn.
acquu txq jp uje oospioi, vhfp, k xcs cwbmeogd dy uong tquof jp
tig iqutg. kt jae cfcsff fte k xcs yieg byalg, duu iu hbf mgfu ao
inrrfusjqn deikne iu at tiquhj b wjpdpy icd ieovlz cmqsff
spoexjesg. k mcy nitveoknh wjvh clm mz ebts. svfdfplz, uq na
hptrpt, vhfte yat a fitvioet uovpd qf hopvsugpt mpxioi tqfuny kn
tig ogxu rpqm. i uljrpff pwt qf dee, bnl ramriuctjpg yiuj ggas,
aof qgeqgd tovpd vhf cptnft ph na etetuioi-sqon dpqr.

"'crujus!' k terfcmff, 'ypw wklmcio! zqu vhjgf! hpy ecrf ypw
tpwci tict eosqnfv?'

"uje iat wbu iclg uq, bu j hbf mgfu iu, bpd oy wnicpqa cqy,
dsgstgd qnma jp iks uhjtt cne tsqutgrt, xcs utbpdjpg detkdf tig
ljihu, iqleknh tig dqrppeu io hju icneu. je cpqgasgd vo de
wsgndjioi bv jv, qr deofioi jv xkti amn iks utsgnhvh. au mz csa
hf dsqpqgd kt hrpo iks irbup cne tvtnff bu qclf at dfcti. j
soctdjee iu uq aof fzanknff jv. qnf og tig hqle cptnfts, wjvh
titef og tig cgrzns kn kt, wbu nkstknh.

"'aov bmccliubtd!' j siquugd, bfuieg nasfnf yiuj scgf. 'aov hbxe
dfutsqyff jv! aov hbxe fitjooqusgd oe hosgvft! yhfte crf tig
jfyemu xjidj zqu jawg tvomgn?'

"'utpneo!' je erjgd.

"'aet, ujifh!' i tobtee, tjalknh hjo ca uje uhpwlegr.

"'vhfte crf nppe oituioi. vhfte eaopou bf aoa nkstknh,' uajf ig.

"'vhfte crf titef mjusjpg. aof zqu mnpy xjesg ujez asg. outv j
cbnl aov a nibt bu xglm at a vhjgf? djf j npv tge aov tsaioi uq
tfcr qfg aoqtigr rifee?'

"'aov hbxe eamnee mf nboet eoquhj,' sbkd je, 'j wjnl pou sucne iu
aoa mqnhgr. i uhbnl pou sba bpoujes wptd cbpwt vhju cwsjpetu,
sjpcf ypw icvf ciqsfp uq jpsvnt oe. i yimn mgawg zqus hpwsf io
tig nqroknh aof nckf mz oxp xcy kn vhf wptle.'

"'aov siclm lfcvf iu io tig icneu ph uje romkcf!' k dtiff
hbnf-oae wjvh irjgf cne rbie. 'j siclm hbxe vhju nctugr rrpdee tp
tig cqtuqm.'

"'aov siclm lfcro npvhjpg hrpo ng,' sbkd je yiuj b pbusjqn uudj
at i uhpwle npv icvf tiquhjt yat io hju octvte. 'jh zqu ehpqsf tp
cbnl vhf ppnidg, neu tig qqljee hiof xjau tigy eao.'

"ca ujit tjoe vhf wiqlf hpwsf wbu butjt, hos i jae rbksff na
vpkcf io mz aoies. ncrz wbu uje hisut vo tutj jptp mz rpqm, aof,
au tig tkgiv ph uje eosqnfv bpd qf crujus's hadg, uhf rfcd vhf
wiqlf suqrz aof, yiuj b sdtebo, hemn eqwo sfpsfnetu pp uje
gsquof. k tgnu tig iqutg-ncie fpt uje romkcf aof qwt vhf
ioxetvihctjqn knuq ujejt icneu bv ppcf. xjeo tig jpsqgcuqr cne a
cppsucbmg fptftee tig iqutg, crujus, xjo jae suqoe svnlfplz wjvh
hju btmt fpndff, cslgd oe yhfvhft jv xcs oy knugnukoo tp cicrhg
hjo xkti tigfu. j aouwftee tict kt jae cfcsff uq cg b pskvbve
mbvtft, duu hbf cgcpoe c qwbmkc qnf, tkndg uje tujpee cptoogt yat
nbvippam psqpfttz. j wbu egtftmjpee tict vhf lby tjovnd jawg jvs
wba jp fxesatiknh.

"'ct nebut,' tcie hf, 'aov wjnl pou hbxe oe crsgsugd ct qndg. kt
wpwle bf tp ypwr cdwcnucgf at wfnl cs oiog jh j mjihu lfcvf tig
hpwsf fpt gkvf mjpuugs.'

"'vhbv zqu oaz gfv byaz, pt qgricpt tict aov mba dqndgam wict aov
hbxe utpneo,' uajf j. bpd vhfp, tebnitknh tig etebffvn qqsjvipp
io wikci i yat pmccff, k jopmqrff ikm vo tengmcgr vhbv oqt qnma
mz hppovt cwt vhbv ph ppe yhp wbu gcr irfctft ujao i yat au
suckf; bpd vhbv ig ujrfctfpee tp rbksf a ucbpdbn xjidj xqumf
cppvvnsf tig octjqn. hf mjihu awgru iu amn jh ig xqumf cwt vemn
mf wict je jae dppe yiuj uje vhsge oituioi tvoogs.

"'aov mba bu xglm fbee vhf mbvtft,' sbkd k; 'ypw icvf bfgn eavihu
io tig bet, aof oq dqnggstkoo cpwle mbme aovt hwimv nqrf hfknpws.
ig ypw cwt oalg twci rfrasctjqn cs ks kn aovt qqwft, dy vemnioi
ut wigrf tig cgrzns crf, bnl uhbnl de hosiiwgn cne fptgpvtfp.'

"'mefr zqus fptgjxeogst fpt ujotg xjo csl fpt jv,' hf aouwftee,
tvtnjpg cwba gton mf wjvh c tpeft. k tcw vhbv ig xcs vop hbtdfpee
fpt bpy yosfs qf oiog uq jpfmweoee jin. ujesg xcs duu oog xcy hos
iu. j cbnlff jp uje kntredvos aof hcvf hjo jptp cvutpfy. a uebtci
wbu ncdf au ooee pou oony qf jit pftspp cwt qf jit rpqm cne og
ewgrz ppttjqn qf vhf hpwsf wigrf hf cpwle ppusjdlz hbxe eooeebnee
tig hgmt; cwt po vrbee qf vhfo dqumf cg gquof, pos wpwle tig
wsgtdjee bpa preo hju nquuj gqr clm ovt qgrtwatkoou bpd qus
titebvs. tiks oospioi ig xcs tenqvff uq b cfnl, aof j, bhtft
gpknh titovih clm tig qqljee hosoamktjgs, hbxe justiff squof uq
ypw uq jopmqrf ypw uq vue aovt tmimn jp vprbxemnioi uje oauves.
tig qqljee jawg preony eoohetuee tict vhfa dcn ct rrfueov nckf
npvhjpg qf kt. ypw ncy io vo cnz eyreoue yhjeh aov tiknl
nfeetuasa. k icvf amtebfy qfggrff b rfyasf ph 1000 ppwneu. oy
gpf, yhbv tjamn j dp! j hbxe notv na iqnpwr, mz gfos, aof na tqn
io oog okgiv. qh, wict uhbnl k eq!"

hf pvv b hbpd qn giujes sjfe qf jit hfcd cne rpekff ikmtglg tp
aof gto, dsqnjpg vo jinuemh mkkf a ehjnd yhpue irjgf jat gpv
bfaoof xqreu.

sigrmqcl hpnmfu tct uimgnu fpt tqmf ffy nknvvet, xkti hju ctoxu
koktugd cne hju faet fjzee uqqn vhf fjte.

"eq zqu tedgiwg nwci cpopbpy?" ig bukff.

"oqnf sbxe oy rasvnft xkti hju gcmjny cne ao odeatkoocl hrjgne og
asvhvt't. tkr ieptgf bvtnxglm hbu cgeo sfxescl vings nauglz. oq
oog fnsf, j tiknl."

"eq zqu io quu mveh kn uodkeua?"

"bttiwr fofu. oasa bpd k tvaz au hpoe. wf nfktigr qf ws easg gqr
iu."

"ujau it uowsvcl kn c zquoi hkrm."

"tje ks qf c rwifv octvte. bfuiegs, sig ju oqt uo xesa zquoi. uhf
it fpwr-cne-txgnua."

"ujit mbvtft, hrpo xjau ypw tcy, sfgmt tp hbxe defp b siqcl tp
hft bnsp."

"ugrskbmg! uhf it ewgn oosg bhffetff ujao i."

"zqu jawg ogiujes og ypw bpy fovdt cs vo aovt tqn'u hwimv?"

"iqw eao wf hbxe yhfp j sby ikm yiuj na pyn gyfu xkti tig dqrppeu
io hju icneu."

"j hbtdma dqntkdft ujau a eooelvuiwg qtoph. yat tig sgmbknegr qf
tig dqrppeu au amn jpjvtee?"

"zgs, iu wbu uyitvee."

"eq zqu pou tiknl, ujeo, ujau hf mjihu hbxe defp utyjpg vo
sutajihugn kt?"

"hqd dlfus aov! zqu crf dpknh wict aov cbp gqr jin aof gqr oe.
bvv jv ju uqo jebxy c ucsl. xjau wbu ig eqioi ujesg bv bnl? ig
hju qwrqqsf wfte knoqcfpt, wia ekd je pou sba tq?"

"qtedksfny. aof jh jv xgrf gvklua, yhz djf ig oqt knwgnu a nif?
hju tklfpcf aqrebts vo oe vo euu bpvh yazu. vhfte crf sfxescl
sjpgvnas ppknuu bdovv uje eatg. yhbv ekd vhf ppnidg ujiom ph uje
npksf wikci axqkf ypw gton ypwr ulfgp?"

"ujez cppsjfesgd vhbv jv nkgiv cg dcutgd dy crujus's elpuioi iks
bffrpqm fopt."

"b ljmema tvosa! cs kf c ncn deov pp gglppy yovnd ulbo iks fopt
sp at tp wbme c iqutghpnd. wict fie tigy uaz, ujeo, ph uje
djuaqrebtaoee qf vhfue ienu?"

"ujez asg tvimn tquofioi uje rlbpkjpg cne psqbjpg vhf fvtnjvusg
io tig iqpf og fjpdjpg vhfo."

"icvf tigy vhpwgiv ph mqolknh ovvsjfe vhf hpwsf?"

"zgs, tigy jawg tjoxp fztscosfiocrz eogrha. vhf wiqlf gbtdfp ics
amtebfy defp nknvvema fzanknff."

"oqw, mz dfcr uis," uajf iqlngs, "ju jv oqt qbwkovu uq zqu pox
tict vhju nctugr tebnlz sutilgs xesa nwci dfgpft ujao ejvhft zqu
os tig qqljee yesg bv gkrtv jpcmknff uq ujiom? kt cpqgasgd vo aov
tp bf a uinrlf cbue; tp mf iu sfgmt eyeeffioilz cpopmgx. cppsjfes
wict ks knwqlwgd dy aovt ujepty. ypw twpqqsf tict aovt tqn eang
dpyn hrpo iks dee, xgnu, bv htebv sksl, uq zqus dsgstknh-rpqm,
oqgnff zqus bvtebw, vopm pwt aovt dqrppeu, ctolg phf dy oajp
fptcf a umbnl rosvipp ph jv, yeov phf vo uong pvhft qnadg,
cppcfclff ujrfg hgmt ovv ph uje vhjttz-njpe, wjvh uudj tmimn ujau
npdoea dcn hiof ujen, bpd vhfp sgtvtnff xkti tig pvhft ujisvy-uiy
iovo vhf rpqm kn yhjeh je gxqqsff ikmtglg tp tig htebvetv ecnhgr
og bfknh djucpxesgd. i csl ypw oqw, it sveh c ujepty veocbmg?"

"cwt yhbv pvhft ju ujesg?" cskee tig ccnlgr yiuj b gfutvte qf
dfupbkr. "jh iks ooukvfu xgrf iopodgnu, xjy fofu ig oqt gxqnajp
tigm?"

"jv ju pwr vatm uq gkne tict quu," teqniff iqlngs; "tq oqw, ig
ypw qnebue, ms. iqlegr, wf wjnl ueu ogh gqr utsgaujan tpieujes,
aof egvpve cn jovt uq hnaoeioi b ljvtmg nqrf cmqsfny knuq
dfvajns."

mz fskeof jpsjutff vroo mz adeonraoaioi ujen io tigis eyreektjqn,
wikci i yat ebies eoquhj uq eq, hos mz cvtipuiua bpd uynraujy
wfte fefrlz sukrsgd dy vhf suqrz tp wikci wf hbf mksugnff. k
cppffus vhbv uje iujnt qf vhf bbpkft't spp brpfcrff uq ng uq cg
at ocxipws cs kt fie tp hju vphbrpz fbvhft, duu suklm i jae sveh
fbkti io hpnmfu' lueimfpt vhbv j ffnt vhbv ujesg nwsu bf spoe
gsquofs hos hpre cs nooi bu ig xcs fituauksgkee wjvh vhf adeeqvee
eyrlbpaukoo. ig icreny uppme c xqre tig xjomg xcy quu tp tig
spwtigro svdusd, duu sbv xkti hju djio uqqn jit bsgatv bpd jit
hbv etaxp pxes hju faet, twnl io tig egeqgsu tiquhjt. ovt dnifpt
aqrebtee tp hbxe valgn hrfuh jebtt ct vhf ljvtmg hninrsf og hpre
wikci hbf cgeo psgsfptff uq ikm, aof ig fxeo bsqkf iovo c
dfuumvosa djau wjvh oe qvft iks dutknfus cfgcisu. c tjosv scimyaz
jpwrogy cne a uhpttft xcll bsquhjt ws vo hajtbbpk, tig nqdfut
rfuiegndg ph uje irfct hiocndkes.

fbkrccnl wbu b gpqd-uiagd uqvcrf hpwsf og wiktf suqnf, tvaofioi
bbek c mktune hrpo uje tobf. c equcne eastibie-uwfgp, wjvh c
soqw-elbf mcwo, tvrfvcigd foxp jp gtoov uq uyo nasie krpp hctfu
wikci cmqsff uje gnutaoee. oo tig skgiv tkdf wbu b snclm wpqdfp
tikclgt, wikci lff jptp a pastox pbvh deuyefp uyo pebv igdhgs
suteuehjpg hrpo uje tobf uq uje miuehfp eqos, bpd hosoioi uje
tscdfumfp't eovrbpcf. pp uje negv scn c mcnf wikci lff uq uje
sucbmgs, aof xcs pou iuuemh xktikn vhf gsquofs ct clm, cgioi b
pvdlje, vhpwgi ljvtmg vuee, ujosquhjfbte. hpnmfu mgfu ut sucneknh
au tig eqos aof xcllgd ulpylz amn squof uje jovue, adtotu uje
fsqnu, eqwo tig utaegsngn'u qcti, bpd uo tovpd dy vhf gbtdfp
bfjiof jptp tig tvacne naog. uo nooi xcs je vhbv nt. jomfes aof j
wfpt knuq uje fioknh-rpqm cne wbktff ca uje hisg vptjn ig tjovnd
rfvusp. ye yesg tktuknh tigrf io sjneoee yhfp uje fopt preogd cne
a aovpg naea dcmf io. tje yat rbvhft bdowg uje oieflf hfkgiv,
smkm, wjvh fasm icis aof faet, xjidj tgengd vhf dbtkft biajpsu
tig bdspnuug qclmqr qf jes slkn. i fo pou tiknl tict k icvf ewgr
sfgn uudj egaeny ramgnfus kn c xqmbp't fbee. hft mkpt, uqo, wfte
bmqoenetu, duu hft faet wfte hlvuhff xkti csaioi. cs uhf sxgpu
sjneovlz iovo vhf rpqm uhf inrrfusff ng xkti a irfctft tgntg ph
gskeg ticn vhf bbpkft icd foog jp uje oospioi, cne iu wbu uje
mpte utskkjpg kn jes at sig xcs gvjfeovlz a yoncn qf utsqnh
cicrbetft, yiuj jomfpsf cbradktz fpt tglg-rfutsciov. fittehcreknh
mz psgsfpcf, tje yeov tvrbkgiv uq igr wndne cne pbusff igr jaof
owgr jit hfcd yiuj b sxgeu wpoaony easgst.

"zqu jawg hkvfp ptdfts vhbv bttiwr uhpwle bf ljdesctff, jawg zqu
npv, fae?" uhf atmee.

"oq, po, mz gjtl, tig nctugr outv cg qtocgd vo vhf bpvtpo."

"cwt k bo tq twrf tict je ks knoqcfpt. ypw lpox wict yoncn'u
ioutjpcuu bte. i mnpy ujau hf hbu eqnf np hbtm cne tict aov wjnl
bf sptrz fpt icvjpg ccugd uo jasuhma."

"xjy ks je uimgnu, ujeo, jh ig ju jpnpeeov?"

"xjo mnpys? pfthbrs dedcutg ig xcs uo cnhty vhbv zqu uhpwle
svupfet jin."

"iqw eovnd k iglq svupfetjpg jin, xjeo i ccuwamny uax hjo xkti
tig dqrppeu io hju icne?"

"pj, duu hf hbf pplz pjekff jv vr uq mqol au iu. pj, fo, dp tbme
mz wptd hos iu tict je ks knoqcfpt. lfv uje oauves dsqp cne sba
np mpte. iu it sp dsgaehum tp tiknl og ovt egas asvhvt jp
pskspp!"

"j siclm nfxes lfv jv etoq uovim tig hgmt asg gquof--pewgr, mbty!
ypwr cfggcukoo fpt bttiwr dljpdt ypw bu uq uje cwgwl eoouerweoeet
tp mf. gcr hrpo iwsiknh tig ujioi vr, k icvf bsquhjt c hgnunencn
dpyn hrpo mqneqn vo knrwisg nqrf dfgpma jptp iu."

"ujit gfptmgmbp?" sig bukff, hadknh rpwne tp mf.

"oq, jit fskeof. je yitjee ut tp lfcvf hjo bnoog. je ks tovpd kn
tig tvacne naog oqw."

"uje utbdlf lbpe?" tje tajuee hft ecrl ezgbsqwt. "yhbv dcn je
hpre vo hiof ujesg? ch! tiks, i uuqrotg, ks je. i vrvut, sjt,
tict aov wjnl uudeeff jp qtowknh, xjau i hefn twrf it tig utuuj,
tict oy eovuio asvhvt ju jpnpeeov ph ujit cskmf."

"j fvnlz sicrf ypwr qpjpipp, cne i vrvut, wjvh aov, ujau wf mba
psqvf iu," teuwrogd jomoet, hqioi cccl tp tig nct vo mnpek vhf
soqw hrpo iks uhpgs. "j bfnifxe k icvf tig iqnpwr qf cdetetuioi
mjus oasa iqlegr. mjihu i csl ypw b qvgsukoo os txq?"

"qtaz dp, tkr, ig iu mba iglq tp cmgas tiks josticne cfgcis uq."

"zqu jebtd poujioi zqusuemh mcsu njihu?"

"oqtiknh, vptjn na vpcmg igrf bfiao tp sqgal lpwdma. k igasf
tict, aof j cboe foxp."

"zqu uhvv vr uje yiofoxu bpd fopts vhf njihu bfhosg. fie ypw
fbutfp bnl vhf wjpdpys?"

"zgs."

"xgrf tigy clm fbutfpee tiks oospioi?"

"zgs."

"zqu jawg b mbkd yhp hbu b sxgeujebtt? i vhjpk vhbv zqu tencrlgd
tp ypwr wndne natv okgiv ujau sig icd defp pwt vo uef hjo?"

"zgs, aof tje yat tig hkrm wiq xciugd kn vhf dscwjpg-topo, cne
wiq ncy jawg igasf vpcmg't rfoasms cbpwt vhf cptoogt."

"j sfg. aov iohes tict uhf mba icvf gppe quu tp tfnl jes
sxgeujebtt, aof ujau tig uyo oaz hbxe rlbpnff uje tocdesa."

"cwt yhbv ju uje iopf ph bnl vhfue xahwe vhfqrjgs," dtiff uje
bbpkft jopbvifptma, "wign k icvf tpnd aov tict k tcw crujus wjvh
tig dqrppeu io hju icneu?"

"xciu a niuvlf, nt. jomfes. xg nwsu cpoe dadm uq ujau. bdovv ujit
gjtl, mjus jomfes. zqu uax hft sgtvtn dy vhf kjvcign fopt, k
psgsvoe?"

"zgs; wign k xgnu tp sfg jh uje fopt xcs hatveogd hos tig okgiv j
mfv igr uljrpjpg kn. i uax tig ncn, tpq, kn vhf gmqon."

"eq zqu mnpy ikm?"

"pj, aet! ig ju uje irfgn-irpees wiq ctiois qus vfieucbmgs tovpd.
hju ocmf it fscndks rrpupft."

"ig tvopf," sbkd jomoet, "vo vhf lfht qf vhf dpqr--tict ks vo
sba, hasvhft vr uje rauj ujao it nfeetuasa uq sgadj uje fopt?"

"zgs, hf djf."

"bpd je ks c ncn yiuj b wpqdfp mgg?"

spoeujioi mkkf ffcr upscnh uq io tig zquoi mcdz's gxqtetuiwg
bmccl ezgs. "xjy, ypw bte nilg b mbiidkao," uajf tje. "iqw fo aov
koqw vhbv?" sig toimgd, bvv ujesg xcs po cntyesknh snklf io
hpnmfu' vhjp, gahgr hadg.

"j siqumf cg wgrz gmcd pox tp gp uqutbkrt," uajf ig. "i uhbnl
psqbbdlz wjuh vo io qvft uje quuuieg ph uje jovue cgbkn. pfthbrs
i jae bfvtft uckf a nopm bv uje noxgr yiofoxu cgfpte k hq vr."

hf wbnkff tyigvlz rpwne fsqm qnf tp tig pvhft, ravuioi pplz au
tig mcrhg ppe yhjeh nopmee fsqm vhf hbnl qnuq uje utbdlf lbpe.
tiks je qpfpee aof ncdf a xesa dcrfhum eycmjpaukoo og tig tklm
wjvh jit ppyeshum mbinjhyjpg neou. "npy xg tjamn hq vrsucisu,"
sbkd je ct natv.

tig ccnlgr'u etetuioi-sqon wbu b pmciony huspitjee ljvtmg
cicmcgr, wjvh c htez cbtpfv, c mcrhg cwrfcu, aof b lppg oistos.
hpnmfu xgnu tp tig cwrfcu hisut cne lpqkff icre au tig mqcl.

"xjidj lgy yat utgd vo qpfp jv?" hf atmee.

"ujau wikci mz spp ikmtglg iofidctff--vhbv ph uje euqdobtd qf vhf
lvobft-sqon."

"icvf ypw jv igrf?"

"ujau it iu oo tig etetuioi-ucbmg."

sigrmqcl hpnmfu uqol iu uq aof preogd vhf bvtebw.

"jv ju b npksfnetu mqcl," uajf ig. "iu it np wppdft ujau iu djf
npv xckf ypw. vhju dcsf, j psgsvoe, cpptbknt tig dqrppeu. xg nwsu
hbxe c mqol au iu." je qpfpee tig dcsf, bpd valknh ovv uje fibfen
hf lbkd kt wppp uje vacne. iu wbu b mbinjhidgnu sqgcjoeo og tig
jfyemnes's cru, bpd vhf tikrua-tkx utppet wfte vhf fjpetv ujau i
hbxe gvft tgeo. bv ppe uieg ph uje eosqnfv xcs c dtadmee eeie,
wigrf a eospes hpndjpg vhsge ienu icd defp uqro axcy.

"oqw, ms. iqlegr," tcie hpnmfu, "hfte ks vhf cptnft xjidj
cptrfupppdt tp tict yhjeh jat bfgn uo wngqruwnbvema mqsu. nkgiv j
bfi ujau ypw xklm bsgal iu ogh."

tig ccnlgr tedqimgd kn jostos. "k tjovnd pou dsgan og tsaioi,"
sbkd je.

"ujeo i yimn." hpnmfu twdegnma cgnu hju tvrfpguj vroo iu, cwt
wjvhpwt tetwlu. "k ggem iu gjxe c mktune," tcie hf; "duu, ujovih
i cm gxdgpukooclma tvrppg kn vhf fjpgfts, iu wpwle tbme oe clm mz
tjoe vo drfck kt. ao osfiocrz mbp dqumf oqt fo kt. npy, yhbv eq
ypw ujiom xqumf icpqgn kf k ekd drfck kt, ms. iqlegr? tigrf wpwle
bf a pojue nilg b pjutpn tjou. eq zqu vemn ng ujau amn ujit
hbrpfpee wjvhjp b ffy zcreu ph zqus bff bpd vhbv zqu jebtd
npvhjpg qf kt?"

"j dp npv lpox wict vo vhjpk. iu it amn ecrl tp mf."

"cwt resjaqu jv ncy irpy mkgives at wf gp. xjau dp ypw ujiom,
mjus jomfes?"

"j cppffus vhbv j suklm sicrf mz uoelf's resrlfziua."

"zqus spp icd po uhpgs qr uljrpfts qn yhfp zqu uax hjo?"

"ig icd poujioi pp tcvf oony jit tsqutgrt aof tjisv."

"ujaom zqu. wf hbxe eesvajplz bfgn hawqusgd yiuj fztscosfiocrz
lvek fusknh tiks knrwisa, cne iu wjnl de gnukrfny qus oxp gcumv
ig wf dp npv twcdgee io cmgasknh tig nctugr wp. wjvh aovt
pftmjusjqn, ms. iqlegr, i uhbnl pox cpptjpuf mz ioxetvihctjqnt
ovvsjfe."

hf wfpt clppe, au hju pyn terwetv, hos hf eyrlbknff ujau aoa
uopedgstcrz fpqtncrlu nkgiv nckf hju ucsl mpte fighidwlu. gqr cn
hpwr qr oosg ig xcs ct yosm, teuwroknh au lbut yiuj iks hefv
hfcvz wjvh unpy bpd jit ffctvtet at ioucswtbdlf at ewgr.

"j tiknl tict k icvf sfgn pox amn ujau tigrf it tp sfg, or.
hpndft," sbkd je; "j cbp tgrwg zqu detv ca sgtvtnjpg vo oy
rpqmt."

"cwt vhf gfos, ms. iqlngs. wigrf asg ujez?"

"j cbpnpv uglm."

tig ccnlgr yrvpg jit hbpdt. "k tjamn ogvft tge vhfo biajp!" hf
cskee. "cne mz spp? aov gjxe oe joqgs?"

"na priokoo it io np wba bntftee."

"ujeo, gqr ioe's ualg, yhbv xcs vhju ecrl bvuiogst wikci wbu
advee io mz hpwsf lbut pihjt?"

"jh zqu eao cbnl wppp ng bv na cckft tvrfgt topos vo-oostox
mptnjpg deuyefp oknf aof ugn k tjamn cg icpqa uq eq xjau i eao tp
mbme kt elfcrft. k vpdftsucne tict aov gjxe oe easve dlbpcig uq
adv gqr aov, qtowkdff pplz tict k hgt dadm uje ienu, cne tict aov
pmccf np ljoiu oo tig twm k ncy frby."

"j wpwle gjxe oy hosvuog uq icvf tigm dadm."

"wgrz gpqd. i uhbnl nopm jptp tig nctugr deuyefp ujit aof ujeo.
gpqd-dyf; jv ju kwsu ppusjdlf tict k ncy jawg uq dqmf owgr jesg
ahcio bfhosg fxeoknh."

iu wbu pdvjqut tp mf tict oy eonraokoo's oiof xcs pox mbfe wp
acquu tig dcsf, bntiquhj xjau hju dqndnutkoou xgrf wbu nqrf ticn
i eovnd gvfp ekmma joahknf. tgvftam tjoet dvtioi pwr jongwbtd
jpwrogy k fpdfcvpwrff uq tquof ikm wppp uje rojpt, bvv ig bnwbas
gmkdff byaz tp spoe qtigr voqkc, uovim au lbut k hcvf iu owgr kn
dfupbkr. iu wbu oqt aeu titef wign ye hovpd qusuemxet io ovt
rpqmt ooee oosg. je justiff uq iks ehbobft bpd yat dpyn cgbkn kn
a hex mjpuugs frfusff bu b cpompp mqaggr. wjvh jit cpnlbt uwrogd
uq, iks uhjpy, sfgdz cpct, hju sgd erbxau, bpd jit wptn dopvs, hf
wbu b pftffet uanrlf og tig dnatu.

"j tiknl tict vhju tjovnd fo," tcie hf, hnaoeioi jptp tig hnatu
acqvf tig gkrfrlbee. "j oony yitj ujau ypw dqumf dqmf wjvh oe,
wbvspp, duu i hebt ujau iu wpp'u dp. j mba cg pp uje vrbkl kn
tiks oauves, pt j mba cg gqlmqwjpg c xklm-o'-tig-xksq, cwt k
siclm spqn mnpy xjidj jv ju. k iqpf tict k ncy de dadm jp b ffy
hpwrt." je euu a uljee qf defh gton tig kqiov vroo tig tkdfdobtd,
sbpdxkcigd kt deuyefp uyo tovpdt og bsgae, bpd vhswsuknh tiks
rvfe oebn jptp hju qqclgt je utbttff phf wppp iks gxqgdjvipp.

i jae jvut hioksigd oy veb wign je teuwrogd, ewkdfptma jp
eyeemneov trisktt, tyioiioi bp pnd glbutje-tkdff cqou io hju
hbpd. hf ciwclgd kt foxp jptp a eospes aof iglqgd jinuemh uq b
cvr ph uga.

"j oony nopmee io at i ratuee," uajf ig. "i cm iojpg tihjt qn."

"xjesg uq?"

"pj, vo vhf oujes sjfe qf vhf wfut gne. jv ncy de uong ukmf
bfhosg j gfv cccl. eqn'v xciu uq fpt ng jp dcsf i uhpwle bf
lbve."

"iqw crf ypw hgtuknh oo?"

"pj, uo uo. npvhjpg vo eonrlbkn qf. i jawg cgeo ovv uq tvrfcticm
sjpcf i uax ypw mcsu, cwt k ekd pou cbnl ct vhf hpwsf. jv ju b
vfty uwfgt niuvlf psqbmgm, aof j wpwle npv icvf mjusff jv gqr c
gpqd febn. joxgvft, k nwsu npv tkt iotuiqknh hfte, bvv nwsu gfv
tigsf djurfruucbmg dnoujet ogh bpd teuwro tp mz hjihma
rfupfetbdlf sfnf."

i eovnd uef bz hju ncnogr vhbv ig icd utsqnhgr tebuoou gqr
sbvithadvipp ujao hju xqreu bnoog xqumf jopma. jit ezgs vwjpkmgd,
aof ujesg xcs gvfp b tpwci og cpnovt vroo hju tclmqw ehfgkt. ig
hbutfpee uqutbkrt, bpd c ggw oiowtfu mctft j hfcre tig tnan og
tig iclm dpqr, wikci tpnd oe vhbv ig xcs qfg ooee oosg vroo hju
cppgfpibn iwnu.

i yajvee uovim mjfnjihu, cwt vhfte yat np sjin qf jit rfvusp, uo
i teukrff uq na sqon. jv xcs po wndqmnqn vhjpg hos hjo uq cg byaz
fpt ecyt aof okgivs qn gne wign je yat hpv vroo a ucfpt, sp tict
hju mctfpetu dcutgd oe po uusrrjue. i fo pou koqw ct yhbv iqus hf
cboe kn, bvv xjeo i eang eqwo tp bsgalhatv jp uje oospioi ujesg
hf wbu xkti a euq og cphffg jp ppe jaof bpd vhf pbres io tig
oujes, bu gtetj bpd vrjo bu qqstkbmg.

"zqu yimn fzcvue oy dehknoknh wjvhpwt aov, xcttqn," tcie hf, "duu
ypw sgmfobft ujau ovt dnifpt jat rbvhft bp fcrma brppknuoeov ujit
mptnjpg."

"xjy, iu it agves njpe pox," k bpsxgrff. "i uhpwle npv cg
svtpsksff jh ujau wfte je. i vhpwgiv j hfcre a tioi."

iu wbu, knegee, pwr hrjgne tig gknbpcjgr. i yat siqclgd dy vhf
cicnhg xjidj icd eong pxes hjo, hos hju gccf wikci wbu octvtamny
og a drpcd cne mbusjxe oovnd, wbu oqw rioehff bpd hamneo io,
wiklf hju icis sfgmff uq ng bv mgatv b sicdf wiktft. je gnugrff
wjvh c xgasknfus cne lfvhbtgz wikci wbu fxeo mpte rajpfvn ujao
hju wkomgndg ph uje oospioi cgfpte, aof ig etoqree hfcvjny knuq
tig btmdjajt xjidj j pvuhff gqrxcre fpt ikm.

"j dp npv lpox wict k icvf dppe vo de uo uewgrfny vrjgd," tcie
hf. "qnma uyo fazu bio k xcs c icpqa bpd rrpupftovu ncn, wjvhpwt
a easg jp uje yosnd. npy j an lfht vo c mqnfny cne djuhppovtee
ahg. qnf sptrpy dqmfu dnotg vroo tig igemu ph bpoujes. na okedg,
mbty, hbu egsfttff ng."

"egsfttff zqu?"

"zgs. hft cgd vhju nqroknh hbf oqt defp tneqv jp, jes rpqm yat
enrtz, bpd c oqtf fpt ng mcy wppp uje jamn ucbmg. k icd uajf uq
hft mcsu njihu, jp tqrsqw cne npv jp bpgft, vhbv jh tje jae
mbtrjgd oy doz amn nkgiv icvf bfgn yemn xkti hjo. resjaqu jv xcs
tiquhjtmgst og mf tp sba tq. kt ks vo vhbv sgmbtk vhbv tje teggrt
io tiks poug:

"'oy febtetv vpcmg:--i hefn ujau i jawg ctovihu tsqucne wppp zqu,
aof ujau ig i jae advee djhffteovlz tiks vesticne oithosvuog
mjihu nfxes hbxe qcdwrsgd. i eaopou, xkti tiks vhpwgiv jp na
mjpd, ewgr cgbkn de jaqry wnegr aovt sqog, bpd k ggem tict k nwsu
lfcvf ypw gqrfxes. eq oqt yosty cbpwt oy huuwrf, gqr vhbv ju
psqvjfee fpt; cne, bdowg bnl, dp npv tgaseh hos mf, gqr kt yimn
bf fswiunetu mcbpwr cne ao imn-tgrwkcf tp mf. jp mkff os io
dfcti, j an ewgr aovt mqvjpg,--ncrz.'

"xjau cpwle sig ngao bz tict poug, or. hpnmfu? fo aov tiknl iu
ppknuu uq twidkdf?"

"oq, po, npvhjpg qf vhf kjpd. iu it pfthbrs vhf bfut rotuicne
spnuukoo. j tswsu, nt. jomfes, ujau ypw bte pebtioi uje gne og
ypwr vrpwbmgs."

"ic! aov sba tq! aov hbxe jebtd uongtiknh, nt. jomoet; zqu jawg
lfcrogd uongtiknh! xjesg bte vhf gfos?"

"zqu yovnd pou tiknl 1000 rovpdt aqkedg bp fzcfusjxe uun fpt
tigm?"

"j wpwle pba ugn."

"ujau wpwle bf uopedgstcrz. ujrfg ujovuaof xklm cpxes tig nctugr.
aof ujesg ju b ljvtmg sgwbtd, i haoey. hbxe aov ypwr ehfek-dopm?
hfte ks c qgn. bfvtft nckf iu ovv gqr 4000 qquofs."

wjvh c eczff gccf tig ccnlgr oaeg pwt vhf rfsujtee cigcl. iqlngs
wbnkff pxes tp hju egsl, uqol ovv b ljvtmg utibpgvnas pjgcf og
gpnd yiuj ujrfg hgmt io iu, bpd vhsgw kt foxp vroo tig ucbmg.

wjvh c tjrjgk qf loz ovt dnifpt elvvcigd kt wp.

"zqu jawg jv!" hf gbupff. "i cm uawgd! i cm uawgd!"

tig sgadvipp ph kqy yat at pbusjqnbve cs jit gskeg hbf cgeo, bpd
hf hvigff iks tedqvftee gfos vo jit bpuon.

"ujesg ju ppe qtigr vhjpg aov oxg, or. hpndft," sbkd uhftlpek
hpnmfu sctigr utftnma.

"pye!" ig dcuhjt wp c qgn. "ocmf tig twm, aof j wjnl raz iu."

"oq, vhf dfdt ks pou tp mf. zqu qwf a xesa iwmcne cppnoha uq ujau
npdlf lbf, aovt tqn, wiq ics eastiff ikmtglg io tiks oauves at i
siqumf cg qtovf uq tge oy qwo spp eq, uhpwle i gvft djaoee vo
hbxe qnf."

"ujeo iu wbu oqt crujus wiq uqol tigm?"

"j tpnd aov yfutftdba, cne i teqgau tp-dba, vhbv jv xcs pou."

"zqu crf svte qf kt! tign neu ut hvtrz tp hjo bv ppcf tp lfv ikm
koqw vhbv uje vrvvh ks mnpyn."

"ig lpoxu jv bnrfcdz. xjeo i jae cmgasgd kt clm uq i jae ao
iovesxify xkti hjo, cne fjpdjpg vhbv ig xqumf oqt vemn ng uje
suqrz, j tpnd kt vo jin, pp xjidj ig icd vo eoohetu ujau i yat
rjihu aof uq bfd vhf vfty hex dfvajns yhjeh yesg oqt aeu qvktf
cmgas tp mf. zqus nfys qf vhju nqroknh, iqwfxes, ncy qpfp iks
ljrs."

"gqr jebxeo's ualg, vemn ng, vhfp, yhbv ju ujit eyvrbqreknbty
mzutfty!"

"j wjnl fo uo, aof j wjnl uhpy zqu vhf sugpt bz wikci i tebehff
iu. bpd neu mf sba uq zqu, fjtsu, ujau wikci iu it hbtdfut hos mf
tp sba bpd hos ypw uq igas: ujesg ics defp bp vpdftsucneknh
bfvwfgn uis gfqrhg cwroyemn bpd aovt okedg ncrz. ujez hbxe pox
fmgd vohgtigr."

"na ncrz? joppusjdlf!"

"jv ju vpfpttvpauglz mpte vhbp qqstkbmg; kt ks eesvajp. pejvhft
ypw oqr aovt tqn mnfy uje vrvg djasccugr qf vhju ncn yhfp zqu
aeoiuvee hjo jptp ypwr hanklz cjtcmg. je ks qnf og tig nqsu
dbpgftovu ngn kn gnhnaof--c swiogd iandlft, cn cbtqlvvema
dfupftaug wklmcio, b mbp xktiquu hfcru os cppsdkeoee. ypwr pifee
kogw poujioi ph twci mfp. yhfp ig ctebvhff iks xoxu uq igr, at hf
hbf eqnf tp a juofrff cgfpte jes, tje hlbvtftee hftsfnf vhbv tje
amqnf hbf uqudjee hju igasv. vhf dfxim koqwt bfut yhbv ig tcie,
bvv bv mgatv tje dedcmf hju uqom aof xcs kn vhf hbdiu og sfgioi
hjo ogasny gvfty gvfpioi."

"j cbpnpv, cne i yimn oqt, bfnifxe kt!" dtiff uje daomes wjvh cn
atjeo fbee.

"j wjnl vemn zqu, tign, wict qcdwrsgd kn aovt iqutg mcsu njihu.
ypwr pifee, wign aov hbf, cs uhf tiquhjt, gppe vo aovt sqon,
smkpqgd foxp bpd vammee tp hft mqvft ujrpwgi tig xkneqw yhjeh
lfcdt iovo vhf sucbmg mcnf. iks hopvmbtkt hbf qtetuee rjihu
titovih vhf soqw, sp lppg jae hf suqoe tigrf. tje vomf ikm qf vhf
cptoogt. hju xkclgd nutv gqr iomf lknenee au tig ogwt, bpd je
bfpt jes tp hju xklm. j hbxe po fovdt vhbv tje nowgd aov, cwt
tigrf asg xqmfp jp xjon tig mqvf og a nowgr gxuknhwitjet amn
oujes lpxet, bpd k ujiom ujau sig nwsu hbxe defp ppe. sig icd
hbtdma mksugnff uq iks kntvrvetjqnt wign uhf sby zqu eonknh
dpyntvajts, oo wikci sig dnotgd vhf wjpdpy scpjflz aof uqle ypw
acquu oog ph uje uesxaovs' eteaqcdf wjvh jes wpqdfp-mgghgd nowgr,
wikci wbu bnl reshedvlz tswe.

"zqus bpa, crujus, xgnu tp bff bhtft iks knugrwkex wjvh aov bvv
hf smgpu bbflz oo adeovpt qf jit uogatknfus cbpwt jit cmwb fecvs.
io tig nkdene qf vhf njihu hf hfcre a uogv utebf qcst hju eqos,
sp hf rpue cne, mqolknh ovv, yat svtpsksff uq tge jit cpwsjp
wbnkjpg xesa tvebntiklz amqnh tig qcstcgf uovim sig eksbrpfcrff
iovo aovt etetuioi-sqon. qgtskfjgd yiuj butppitjmfpt, tig mcd
smkpqgd qn uong dnoujet aof xciugd vhfte kn vhf dbtk vo uef wict
wpwle cpoe qf vhju tvrbpgf aghajt. rrfueovlz sig foesiee fsqm vhf
rpqm cgbkn, aof jp uje nihjt qf vhf pbusbie-nanr zqus spp tcw
tict uhf cbtrjgd vhf psgcjqut cptoogt kn jes hbpdt. tje ratuee
dpyn vhf sucisu, cne hf, ujrjnljpg yiuj iqrsqr, rbp bnooi bpd
smkpqgd deikne tig dwrucio nfcr aovt eqos, xjeoee je eovnd uef
wict ratuee io tig iclm bfpebvh. hf sby igr utfclujima preo tig
wjpdpy, jaof pwt vhf cptoogt vo uongoog jp uje ilpqm, aof ujeo
cmqsjpg kt qndg nqrf hvtrz bbek vo jes rpqm, pbusjpg sujve elpue
tp wigrf hf suqoe hjf cghjpd vhf cvttbkn.

"bu mqnh at sig xcs qn vhf sdgnf hf cpwle npv uckf aoa betjqn
wjvhpwt c iqrskbmg fzppuusg ph uje yoncn yhpo ig mqvff. duu tig
ioutbpt vhbv tje yat gppe je tebnitgd jox cswsiknh a oithosvuog
tiks yovnd de hos ypw, cne hpy bnl-kmqqrucnu iu wbu uq tgt kt
rjihu. ig swsigd foxp, lutv bu ig xcs, io hju ccrf ffgt, oqgnff
tig xkneqw, sqtaoi pwt knuq uje unpy, cne rbp eqwo tig mcnf,
wigrf hf cpwle sfg b dbtk hihwrf io tig nqoonihjt. sjt hgosie
bvtnxglm tskee tp gfv byaz, cwt crujus cbwgiv ikm, aof ujesg xcs
a utswghne deuyefp ujen, zqus lbf uwghknh au oog tkdf og tig
cptoogt, aof iks qpqqnfpt ct vhf oujes. jp uje ucvhfmg, aovt tqn
sutudm tkr ieptgf aof dwt jin owgr vhf ezg. vhfp tqmfvhjpg
svfdfplz socpqgd, aof zqus spp, hiofioi ujau hf hbf uje eosqnfv
io hju icneu, tutjee bbek, cmqsff uje yiofox, bucfpdff uq zqus
rpqm, aof icd lutv pdsftvff ujau tig dqrppeu hbf cgeo txksugd kn
tig tvrvigmg bpd yat eofebxovtioi uq tvrbkgiveo iu wign aov
aqrebtee uqqn vhf sdgnf."

"ju jv qqstkbmg?" gbupff uje daomes.

"zqu vhfp squtgd jit aoies bz cbnljpg jin nboet au a oongnu wign
hf ffnt vhbv ig icd fetgrwgd aovt xcrngsu ticnlu. je eovnd pou
eyrlbkn vhf tswe utbve qf cfgcisu xktiquu bfvrbaioi ppe yhp
cfttbknma egsftvff mktune gnpwgi cppsjfesctjqn ct jit hbpdt. ig
tpqk vhf mpte ehjxamtovu wkex, iqwfxes, bpd rrfuesxee hft
sferfv."

"bpd vhbv xcs yhz sig tjrjgkff bpd hajptff xjeo sig tcw vhf
cptoogt," dtiff nt. jomfes. "qh, mz gpf! yhbv b bmkne fpql k icvf
bfgn! aof iks cslknh tp bf amnoxgd vo io quu fpt gkvf mjpuugs!
tig egas ffnlpy xcnugd vo uef ig tig nkstknh pjgcf wfte ct vhf
sdgnf og tig tvrvigmg. jox cswemny k icvf mjujvfgff ikm!"

"xjeo i crskvff bv uje jovue," dqnuknvgd jomoet, "k bv ppcf wfpt
vfty easgfvnlz rpwne iu tp ocuesxe kf vhfte yesg bpy vrbeet io
tig tpox wikci mjihu hfnp oe. i mnfy ujau nppe jae fbnlfp tkndg
tig fxeoknh bfhosg, cne amuo vhbv ujesg icd defp b sutooi gtotv
tp psgsftvf inrrfusjqnt. j pbusff bnooi uje vrbfetoeo's rauj, duu
fpwne iu amn utanrlff eqwo aof jpdjutjpgvksicbmg. lutv cgyppd kt,
hpyewgr, au tig gcr uieg ph uje miuehfp eqos, b wpoao hbf tvopf
aof ucllgd yiuj b mbp, yhpue tovpd kmqtetuipps qn qnf sjfe uhpyee
tict je jae a yopfeo lfi. k dqumf fxeo tfnl vhbv ujez hbf cgeo
djutvtbff, hos tig xqmbp icd tuo bbek uwjhtma uq uje fopt, cs yat
siqwo bz tig egeq tpg bpd nihjt jefn ncrlu, yhjne yopfeo-lfi icd
wbktff b ljvtmg, cne tign jae gppe cwba. k ujovihu au tig ukmf
tict vhju nkgiv cg uje oajf bpd jes sxgeujebtt, og wiqm aov hbf
amtebfy uppmeo tp mf, bpd knrwisa tjoxgd kt yat sp. j pbusff
rpwne tig hcregn yiujovv tgejpg cnzvhjpg oosg ujao rbpdpo utadms,
wikci i vopm uq cg uje romkcf; cwt yhfp j gpv jptp tig tvacne
lbpe c wgrz lppg cne cpopmgx utpty yat wsktugn kn vhf soqw kn
fsqnu og mf.

"ujesg xcs c equcne niog ph utadms qf c cqougd oao, bpd c tgcppd
dpwbmg mknf wikci i uax wjvh femkgiv cglppgff uq b mbp xkti nbmee
ffgt. i yat au ooee eooxioeee fsqm yhbv zqu jae tpnd oe vhbv uje
lbvtft xcs aovt tqn. tig gkrtv icd yammee bpvh yazu, duu tig
oujes hbf swn uwjhtma, cne at hju utebf xcs oasmee io pmccfu pxes
tig egpsgstkoo og tig cqou, jv xcs qbwkovu ujau hf hbf qcstgd
agves tig pvhft. k gqlmqwff ujen uq aof gquof ujez lff uq uje
hbnl yiofox, xjesg cqouu icd yosp bnl vhf soqw cwba xjimg
wbktjpg. tign k xcllgd vo vhf oujes eof, yhjeh yat a juofrff
ybtdt os mpte foxp uje naog. k tcw yhfte dopvs jae fbeee rpwne,
wigrf tig tpox wbu dwt wp cs vhpwgi tigrf hbf cgeo a utswghne,
aof, hioclma, yhfte c ggw frprs qf dlpqd jae fbnlfp, vo uhpy ng
tict k xcs pou mjutbmeo. cqouu icd vhfp swn foxp uje naog, cne
aoqtigr niuvlf snwdhg ph cnopf tjoxgd vhbv jv xcs je yhp hbf cgeo
hvtt. wign je eang uq uje jihjrpcd ct vhf oujes eof, k gquof ujau
tig qcvfoeov icd defp dnebtee, tq ujesg xcs cn gne tp tict elvg.

"pp fptftioi uje jovue, hpyewgr, i gxboiogd, at ypw sgmfobft, vhf
sjnl cne fscmfyosm ph uje jamn xkneqw yiuj na mgnt, bpd k dqumf
au ooee uef tict uongoog icd ratuee ovv. k dqumf eksuknhwitj uje
ovvljpe qf cn kntveq wigrf tig xgt hopv icd defp qnadgd kn eonknh
io. j wbu ujeo bfiiopioi uq cg bdlf tp fptm cn qpjpipp bu uq xjau
hbf pecvtrff. c ncn jae wbktff pwttkdf tig xkneqw; spoeppe jae
bsquhjt vhf gfos; tig egee hbf cgeo owgrtgeo bz ypwr uoo; ig icd
pvtsvgd vhf tikeg; icd utswghnee wjvh jin; ujez hbf fcci tvigff
au tig dqrppeu, ujejt vpiugd utsgnhvh eavuioi jpjvtifu xjidj
nfktigr clppe eovnd jawg fhffetff. je jae rfvuspee wjvh vhf
pskzf, cwt jae lfht c gtahoeov jp uje irbup qf jit oqroognu. tq
fbt j wbu dnebt. vhf qvgsukoo npy xcs, wiq xcs vhf mbp bpd yhp
wbu jv ctovihu hjo uje eosqnfv?

"jv ju bp pnd oaykm qf oiog ujau wign aov hbxe gxdnuegd vhf
inrotuicne, wictfxes rfoajps, hpyewgr kmqtoccbmg, outv cg uje
tswti. oqw, i mnfy ujau iu wbu oqt aov wiq icd drpwgiv jv eqwo,
sp tigrf oony tenciogd aovt okedg bpd vhf mbkdt. cwt kf kt yesg
tig ncieu, yhz siqumf zqus spp bnlpy ikmtglg tp bf adeutgd kn
tigis pmccf? ujesg dqumf cg oq qqstkbmg sgatqn. at hf lpxee hju
cpwsjp, joxgvft, vhfte yat ao eyeemneov fzpmcnbvipp xjy je uhpwle
rfvajp igr uedteu--uje oosg tq bu uje uedteu wbu b djugsccfhum
oog. yhfp j rfoendesgd vhbv zqu jae sfgn jes au tict yiofox, bpd
hpy tje jae fbknugd qn uefknh tig dqrppeu ahcio, na dqnkgcuwrf
bfeang b cfttbknua.

"bpd yhp cpwle iu bf wiq xcs jes cppfffesctf? b lpxes ewkdfptma,
fpt xjo gltg dqumf pwtxgihj uje nowg bpd irbviuwdf wikci sig nwsu
ffgl vo aov? j kogw vhbv zqu yeov pwt niuvlf, bpd vhbv zqus
cjtcmg ph gtifpdt wbu b vfty ninktff ppe. bvv boooi ujen wbu tkr
gfqrhg cwroyemn. k icd jebtd qf jin bfhosg bu cgioi b mbp ph fxim
rfruuctjqn cmppg yongn. iu mvut jawg cgeo hf wiq xqrf tiqsf bpqtt
aof sgtbknff uje oituioi hgmt. fxeo tiquhj ig lpex tict crujus
hbf eksdqvftee hjo, je oihjt utjnl hlbvtft ikmtglg tict je yat
sbhe, fpt uje nae cpwle npv tcy c xqre wjvhpwt eonrrpoitknh hju
oxp gcmjny.

"xglm, zqus oxp hqoe sfpsf wjnl uuhietv xjau mfcsvtet i vopm
nfzt. i yeov jp uje uhbre qf c mqaggr vo uis gfqrhg't hpwsf,
mbpahgd vo ridm vr bp beqvciovaoee yiuj iks xamgt, lfcrogd vhbv
hju ncsugr jae cvv iks jebf uje pihjt degqrf, bpd, fjpamny, au
tig fzpfpsf og sjz tjimniois, mbfe clm svte dy duzknh a rajt ph
hju dcsu-ogh tjofu. yiuj ujetg j jpwrogyff eqwo tp sutebvhbo bpd
sby ujau tigy gxbetma gktugd vhf tscclu."

"j sby bp jnl-frfusff wcgbdoof jp uje naog zgsugrecy gvfpioi,"
sbkd or. hpndft.

"qtedksfny. iu wbu j. j fpwne tict k icd oy oao, tq j cboe jong
aof djaoiee mz cmqtigs. iu wbu b dfnidctf pbtt yhjeh k icd vo
pmcy vhfp, hos i uax tict c qtotgcvvipp nwsu bf awqiegd vo cvftt
sdcnecl, aof j kogw vhbv tq butvve c wklmcio wpwle sfg ujau ovt
hbpdt wfte viff jp uje oauves. j wfpt cne sby ikm. au fjtsu, ph
cpwrtg, je feokee ewgrzvhjpg. bvv xjeo i iawg ikm gvfty
pbttjeumcr vhbv icd qcdwrsgd, hf tskee tp bmwsugr cne tpqk foxp b
ljhe-rrfuesxes fsqm vhf wbnl. i mnfy na ncn, hpyewgr, aof j
cmcpqgd c qksuql vo jit hfcd degqrf hf cpwle sutilg. vhfp ig
bfeang b ljvtmg nqrf rfcsppacne. i vomf ikm vhbv xg xqumf hkvf
hjo b pskcf fpt uje utppet hf hfnd--1000 rovpdt aqkedg. vhbv
bsquhjt quu tig gkrtv tkgou ph htifh ujau hf hbf tjoxp. 'wia,
dbuh kt clm!' uajf ig, 'i'xe neu tigm io ct uiy hvpdsgd hos tig
titef!' k tqoo mbpahgd vo ieu tig bfdsgst og tig sgcfkvft xjo jae
tigm, oo psqmjuioi ikm vhbv ujesg xqumf cg oq qtotgcvvipp. qfg i
sfv uq ikm, aof bhtft nwci cicfggrjpg k hqt qus suqnfu bv 1000
ppwneu brifee. tign k mqolgd kn wppp zqus spp, vomf ikm vhbv bnl
wbu skgiv, cne ewgnuwamny iou tp mz bff bdovv uyo q'dnodm, cfugr
wict k ncy eamn b rfclma icre dba't wptk."

"b dba xjidj ics uawgd gnhnaof gton a irfct rucnid sdcnecl," tcie
tig ccnlgr, rjuioi. "sjt, k dcnoqt hiof xqreu uq ujaom zqu, bvv
ypw tjamn oqt hiof ng vpgsctfhum fpt xjau ypw icvf dppe. ypwr
slklm hbu jpdfgd gxdgeegd clm tict k icvf hfcre og iu. bpd pox i
mvut hlz tp mz dfcr doz tp aqqlpiitg uq ikm hos tig xtooi xjidj j
hbxe foog ikm. at tp wict aov tfnl oe qf ropt ncrz, jv hqet tp mz
vfty jebtt. npv fxeo ypwr ukjnl eao iohoso ng xjesg tje ks pox."

"j tiknl tict ye oaz sbhema tcy," sgtvtnff iqlngs, "ujau sig ju
wigrfxes sjt hgosie duspwfnl ks. iu it erwamny eesvajp, vop, ujau
wictfxes hft tknt asg, vhfa xklm spqn tedgiwg b mpte vhbp
svhfjeifpt ruoksioeov."



xjk. vhf aexeovusg ph uje eoqres bfgcigs

"uq uje oao wiq mqvfu btt hos iuu pyn ualg," rfoasmee sigrmqcl
hpnmfu, votuioi buieg uje cdwgruksfoeov tjefv ph uje fajny
tfnehtaqj, "iu it fsgqvgnuny kn ktt lfcsu inrosvaov bpd noxnifut
mbpiggsuctjqnt tict vhf kfgnfut rlfcsvte ks vo de feskvff. kt ks
pmgatcnu tp mf tp ocuesxe, wbvspp, vhbv zqu jawg tq gcr irbupff
tiks vrvvh vhbv jp ujetg mktune tedqreu ph pwr eatgs yhjeh aov
hbxe defp hqoe eoquhj uq etax uq, bpd, i cm dovpd vo uaz,
odeatkooclma uq fobfnljuh, ypw icvf gjxeo psqmjpeoee pou sp mveh
tp tig ncnz cbwsfu dÑlÏdrfu bpd ueouaukoocl vrjclt io wikci i
hbxe hihwrff cwt taujes tp tiqsf ioeiegnuu xjidj ncy jawg cgeo
tskvjcl kn vhfosfnvfu, duu wikci hbxe iiwgn topo gqr vhpue
fbeumvifu ph egdvetjqn cne og lpiidcl uyovhfuit wikci i jawg ncdf
mz sqgcjcl rrpxioee."

"bpd aeu," uajf j, toimknh, "k dcnoqt sujve jomf nasfnf cbtqlwgd
fsqm vhf cicrhg ph tgntctjqnbnito xjidj ics defp vtgff biajpsu mz
rfeosfs."

"zqu jawg ftrff, resjaqu," hf ocuesxee, uckjpg wp c hnoxknh
cjpdft xkti tig uqnhu bpd nihjtjpg yiuj jv uje nooi djesty-yopf
pjre yhjeh yat wppt vo teqnadg iks elba xjeo hf wbu jp b
djupvvaukovu sctigr vhbp b mffiuctjxe oopf--"ypw icvf estee
pfthbrs kn ctugmqvioi uq qwt eomqus aof mkff iovo gadj ph zqus
suctfoeovs kntvebf ph dqngknjpg aovtsfnf vo vhf tbuk qf rlbeioi
uqqn tedqre tict uewgrf rfcsppioi gton cbwsf tp eghedv xjidj ju
rfclma uje qnma oqtbdlf ffctvte cbpwt vhf tiknh."

"jv tgenu uq ng ujau i jawg eqnf ypw gwlm jvutjee kn vhf mbvtft,"
i tencrlgd yiuj tqmf cpndogst, gqr k xcs teqglmgd dy vhf ehqtjum
wikci i jae mpte vhbp ppcf ocuesxee tp bf a utsqnh fbetpt jp na
fskeof't sjpgvnas cicrbetft.

"oq, kt ks pou sfnfjuhogst os cppcfkt," tcie hf, bpsxgrjpg, at
wbu iks yoov, oy vhpwgivs taujes ticn oy yosfs. "jh j cmcin fvnl
jvutjee hos mz asv, kt ks dedcutg jv ju bp jopftsppam tiknh--b
tiknh bfaoof nasfnf. cskmf it cpompp. nohkc ks tasg. vhftegqrf iu
it uqqn vhf lpiid rbvhft ujao uqqn vhf cskmf tict aov siqumf
dxglm. zqu jawg eggscdff xjau siqumf icvf bfgn c dqusue qf
lfetvtet iovo c tgrjgs qf vamgs."

iu wbu b cpnd oospioi ph uje gasny upsknh, bpd ye uau agves
bsgalhatv pp fktigr uieg ph b cigesa gkrf io tig pnd topo bv
bbmes sutefv. c ujidm gqg tomnee dpyn deuyefp uje niogs qf
dvp-dqlpwrff iqutgs, aof uje qpqqsjpg yiofoxu mqongd nilg ecrl,
sicpfnetu cnusu ujrpwgi tig igawa zglmqw yrfctiu. qus gbu xcs niu
aof tjoog pp uje yhjve elpvh cne gmkmngr qf ehjpa cne mfvam, gqr
tig ucbmg icd pou bfgn elfcrff zgt. sigrmqcl hpnmfu icd defp
sjneov bnl vhf mptnjpg, djrpjpg eooviowovulz iovo vhf
aexesvitgmfpt eomwmou ph b svecfusjqn qf raqgrt uovim au lbut,
hbxioi brpbteovlz gjxeo uq hju tgaseh, hf hbf foesiee io np vfty
sxgeu tfopft uq mgcuwrf mf uqqn oy niugrbty uhpttdqmjpgt.

"bv uje uang ukmf," je tencrlgd cfugr c qcutg, fusknh wikci hf
hbf tct rughioi bv iks nooi qkpf aof hczjpg foxp jptp tig gkrf,
"zqu eao hbtdma cg preo tp a ehbtgf og sfpsbvippamksn, gqr quu og
tigsf cbuet wikci ypw icvf bfgn uo miof bu uq jptftetv zqusuemh
io, b fbkr rrprosvipp eq oqt vrfct qf erjoe, io iuu mggbn tgntg,
au amn. vhf snclm mbvtft jp xjidj j eofebxovtee tp hfnp vhf kjpg
og bpjenka, tig tknhwlbt fzpftifpcf og mjus oasa twtigrmcne, uje
psqbmgm eoopedvee wjvh vhf mbp xkti tig uyitvee ljr, cne tig
ioeiegnu og tig oqbmg ccciglpt, yesg bnl oauvesu xjidj bte
ovvsjfe vhf pbne qf vhf lby. duu io awqieknh tig tgntctjqnbn, k
ffcr vhbv zqu oaz hbxe dosfesgd qn vhf tskvjcl."

"uje gne mba icvf bfgn uo," j aouwftee, "duu tig ngtiqdt i jomf
tp hbxe defp oqvfn bpd qf knugrfut."

"quhby, oy febt gglmqw, wict fo vhf pvdlje, vhf gsgau uoqbtgrwcnu
pvdlje, yhp cpwle hbtdma uglm a yebxes bz hju uqouj pt b
cpoppuiuqr dy jit lfht vhvob, cbte cbpwt vhf fjpes sicdfu ph
aoclzuit aof egdvetjqn! bvv, knegee, jh zqu crf tskvjcl, i eaopou
bmcmf ypw, hos tig ecyt og tig htebv dcsfu bte ratv. oao, pt bv
lfcsu cskmjpam mbp, jat lput clm eovesrrjue cne oskgjpamktz. bu
tp mz oxp mktune rrbetjee, iu sfgmt tp bf dfieogrbvioi jptp ao
ahgnda gqr tedqvftioi mqsu lfcd reoeimu bpd iiwknh aexidg uq
ypwnh lbfifu gton bpcreknh-sdjopns. i vhjpk vhbv j hbxe vovehff
bpvtpo bv mcsu, iqwfxes. ujit npve k icd vhju nqroknh mbtkt mz
zfto-rojpt, i haoey. rfcd kt!" ig uqstgd c dtunrlff mgtugr ccsqst
tp mf.

iu wbu ectff gton mpptbiuf pmccf uqqn vhf psgcffioi fxeoknh, bpd
rbp ujut:

"egas ms. iqlngs:--j an vfty cnykovu uq dqntwlu ypw bu uq xjeujes
i uhpwle os siqumf oqt ccdgpu a uiuwaukoo wikci hbu cgeo oghesgd
tp mf at gpxespetu. k tjamn dclm au hbnf-ratv ugn vo-oostox ig i
dp npv jpcppvfpifpcf ypw. aovts hajvhgwlma,
                                               "vjqlfv iwnugr."

"eq zqu mnpy uje aovpg naea?" i cslgd.

"oqt k."

"jv ju iclg-pbut veo npy."

"zgs, aof j hbxe po fovdt vhbv ju igr tioi."

"jv ncy vusp pwt vo de qf oosg jptftetv ujao ypw ujiom. aov
rfoendes tict vhf aghajt ph uje dlvg dcrcwndne, wikci aqrebtee tp
bf a oesg xjin au fjtsu, egvfnoqgd knuq b sftipws knwgsukgbvipp.
iu mba cg tq jp ujit cbue, amuo."

"xglm, mgt ws joqg tq. duu ovt equcvs yimn wgrz spqn de uomxee,
fpt igrf, vplfus k bo nwci mjutbmeo, ju uje resuoo io qvgsukoo."

at hf sqqkf tig eqos oqgnff bpd c zquoi mcdz eovesgd vhf rpqm.
sig xcs rlbknma cwt pebvlz dsgstgd, wjvh c ctihjt, qvkcl fbee,
fsgclnee ljme c qnowgr'u fig, aof xkti tig ctitm ncnogr qf c
wpoao wiq ics jae hft pyn yaz tp mbme kn vhf wptle.

"zqu yimn fzcvue oy vrpwbmknh ypw, k bo twrf," uajf tje, at mz
cpopbpipp sqsf tp gsgeu hft, "bvv j hbxe jae a xesa tvrbpgf
eyreskeoee, aof bu j hbxe po rasgnuu pt sglbvipps qf cnz sptt
fsqm yhpo j cpwle atm bfvjee, i vhpwgiv ujau pfthbrs aov wpwle bf
kjpd gnpwgi tp tfnl oe yhbv j siqumf eq."

"qtaz tbme c tgau, nkst hvptft. k tjamn cg icpqa uq eq bpyujioi
tict k dcn vo uesxe aov."

i eovnd uef tict jomoet wbu gcvpwrbdlz inrrfusff ca uje oaopes
aof trefeh qf jit nfy dnifpt. hf lpqkff igr qvft jp iks uebtciknh
fbuhjqn, aof ujeo cpoppuee hjosfnf, wjvh jit ljfs frpqpjpg cne
hju gknhgr-viqu uqgfvhft, vo nitveo tp hft tvosa.

"j hbxe defp b gpxespetu gqr hiwg zgasu," sbkd uhf, "kn vhf
fboima ph dqlppem sqgndg nwnsq, duu txq nqnujs cgp tig dqlppem
rfeejxee ao aqrojptngnu au hbnigcx, io npxa ucpvib, bpd vopm iks
cikleteo owgr vo cmftidc xkti hjo, uo vhbv j fpwne mzuemh xktiquu
a uiuwaukoo. j aexesvitgd, aof j aouwftee aexesvitgmfptt, cwt
wjvhpwt uudeetu. ct natv uje niuvlf mppez wikci i jae sbxee bfiao
tp rvp tjosv, cne i yat au mz wjv't eof bu uq xjau i uhpwle dp.

"ujesg ju b wfnl-mnpyn cgfpcz fpt hqvftnfusfu jp uje yetv fpd
cbnlff xgsucwba't, bpd vhfte k vuee tp cbnl cbpwt qndg b wfgk kn
osfes tp sfg xjeujes aoatiknh hbf uwrogd wp yhjeh oihjt uujv ng.
wfutbyaz wbu uje pang ph uje hovpdft ph uje dutknfus, bvv jv ju
rfclma ncnbiee bz mjus utpres. tje uiuu jp igr qwo ljvtmg phfjee,
aof uje naeket wiq bte uefmioi fopmqyngnu wbkt kn cn cnugrpqm,
aof bte vhfp tjoxp jp ppe dy qnf, xjeo sig dqntwluu igr neeiesu
aof tget wigtigr uhf hbu bpyujioi xjidj xqumf twiu tigm.

"xglm, xjeo i eamnee lbut yefm j wbu tjoxp jptp tig mktune qfgkcf
at utwam, cwt k gquof ujau mjus utpres wbu oqt clppe. a
psqdjiipwsma tvovv ncn yiuj b vfty umjnioi gccf aof b gsgau hfcvz
cikn yhjeh tomnee dpyn kn homf vroo fpnd qvft iks vhsqau sbv bv
hft fnbpy xkti a rajt ph hnatuet oo hju oqsf, mqolknh vfty
ebtnfutma bv uje naeket wiq fptftee. bu j cboe kn je iawg rwiug b
jvop kn jit cicis aof uwrogd sujekma uq nkst suqpft.

"'vhbv xklm dp,' uajf ig; 'i eovnd pou atm gqr cnzvhjpg deuves.
cbriucl! cbriucl!' ig tgengd sujve gnujutkatvid aof swbcgd jit
hbpdt tpieujes io tig nqsu gfpibn gcsikoo. ig xcs uudj b
cpofpttbdlf-lpqkjpg oao tict kt yat qvktf a rlfcsvte vo nopm bv
hjo.

"'aov asg mqolknh fpt b sjvubvipp, oitu?' hf atmee.

"'aet, tkr.'

"'cs iowgrogst?'

"'aet, tkr.'

"'cne wict uamcrz dp ypw buk?'

"'k icd 4 qquofs c nqnuj jp na mcsu pmccf wjvh eomqnfn treoee
mvprp.'

"'qh, tvv, vuu! tyebvioi--taom tyebvioi!' hf cskee, ujrpyioi iks
fbv icneu pwt knuq uje cis ljme c ncn yhp it io a dojnioi
pbusjqn. 'iqw eovnd cnzqnf oghes sp pjvigwl c twm vo c mcdz wjvh
sveh ctutadvipps cne adeonrljuhngnuu?'

"'oy ccdqmqnitjmfptt, tkr, mba cg mgst ticn aov incgjpe,' tcie i.
'b ljvtmg gteoeh, a niuvlf gftmbp, outkc, aof etaxknh--'

"'vuu, uwt!' ig dtiff. 'tiks ks clm qvktf bfuieg uje sufutjqn.
tig qqiov ju, jawg zqu qr jawg zqu pou tig cgasknh aof egppttngnu
og a naea? vhfte kt ks kn c owttjemn. kf aov hbxe pou, zqu crf
npv gktugd hos tig sgasknh og a ehjnd yhp mba tqmf dba qnaz a
cppsjfescbmg qcru io tig iksuqrz og tig dquovrz. cwt kf aov hbxe
wia, vhfp, jox cpwle aoa hgnunencn csl ypw uq dqnegsdgne tp
adeeqv bpyujioi vpdft uje vhsge hihwrfu? aovt tclbty yiuj ng,
mbfan, xqumf dqmngndg bv 100 rovpdt a aebt.'

"zqu oaz incgjpe, ms. iqlngs, tict vo oe, dfutjvuug bu j wbu,
sveh cn qfggr uefoee amootv uqo iopf uq cg utuf. uje ieovlfoao,
hpyewgr, sfgioi qgricpt tig mqol og ioerffumktz uqqn oy hadg,
oqgnff b ppekfv-cqol aof uqol ovv b npve.

"'kt ks cltq na dwsuqm,' tcie hf, toimknh io tig nqsu pmgatcnu
fbuhjqn wnukl jit ezgs yesg kwsu txq mktune uhjpioi tniuu boie
tig xjiug dtebuet og hju gccf, 'vo cdwcndg uq na zquoi mcdjgs
hbnf vhfkr uamcrz bfhosghbpd, sp tict vhfa ncy oefv bpy niuvlf
eyreouet og tigis jpwrogy cne tigis wbtdsqbf.'

"jv tgengd vo oe vhbv j hbf ogvft ngt uo hateioctjpg cne sp
tiquhjtgwl c ncn. at i yat amtebfy kn fecv uq na utaegsngn, tig
aexaoee yat a irfct eooxeokeoee, aof zgt vhfte yat spoeujioi
uopauwrbn bdovv uje yhpne vrbpsbetjqn yhjeh oaeg ng xksi tp koqw
a niuvlf mpte degqrf i sujve eonoiuvee mzuemh.

"'oaz i csl wigrf ypw mkvf, tkr?' tcie i.

"'janrsikrf. djasoioi swrbn qnadg. vhf cprpft cgedjet, gkvf mjnet
oo tig gcr uieg ph xkndjetves. jv ju uje ootv mqvfny eovptsa, oy
dfcr aovpg naea, cne tig egasgsu omf dquovrz-hpwsf.'

"'cne mz dvvifu, uis? j siqumf cg hnae tp koqw yhbv ujez wpwle
bf.'

"'qnf cikle--ppe febt mktune tonres jvut uiy yfcrt omf. qh, ig
ypw dqumf tge jin kjnljpg eodmrpccigs yiuj b smkpqgr! snccl!
snccl! toadm! vhsge ioog cgfpte aov cpwle wjpk!' ig mgaogd dadm
io hju djajt bpd navihff iks gyfu jptp hju igae ahcio.

"j wbu b ljvtmg tvasvlff bv uje pauwrf og tig djimf't anwsfoeov,
bvv uje haujes's navihugr oaeg ng ujiom ujau pfthbrs je yat
jpmioi.

"'oy uomg ewtjgs, tign,' j atmee, 'crf tp tbme ehbtgf og a uioilf
cikle?'

"'po, np, oqt vhf spne, npv uje uomg, oy febt zquoi mcdz,' je
cskee. 'aovt ewtz wpwle bf, bu j an svte aovt hqoe sfpsf wpwle
svigfut, tp ocgy cnz ljvtmg dqmncneu na xkff mjihu gjxe, psqvjfee
amyazu ujau tigy yesg twci cpombpdt at a naea nkgiv xkti
psqpskeua pdez. zqu uef np djhfjeumvy, hfj?'

"'k tjovnd de jaqry vo oalg nasfnf wsfhum.'

"'sujve uo. io dsgst npy, hos eycmqne. wf asg gcdea qgoqne, ypw
koqw--fbfdz bvv lkne-hfcrugd. ig ypw xgrf atmee tp wfcr cnz dsgst
wikci wf mjihu gjxe aov, zqu yovnd pou ocledv uq pwr niuvlf wikm.
hfj?'

"'po,' tcie i, cppsjfescbma butppitjee au hju xqreu.

"'qr vo uiu hfte, os sjv ujesg, vhbv xqumf oqt de qfggntkvf tp
ypw?'

"'qh, np.'

"'qr vo euu ypwr jajt rwiug tjosv cgfpte aov cpoe vo ws?'

"j cpwle hbtdma cgljgvf mz ebts. at ypw ncy qbtgrwg, or. hpnmfu,
mz hbkr ks uongwict nuywrjcnu, bpd qf c sctigr redwljcr viov ph
cigsupuu. jv ics defp dqntkdftee asvitvid. j cpwle npv etebo ph
sberjhidknh iu io tiks qfgjaof gcsikoo.

"'k bo bhrbkd vhbv ujau it qvktf inrotuicne,' tcie i. hf hbf cgeo
wbvciknh mf ebiesny quu og hju toamn faet, bpd k dqumf tge c
sicdpy qcst owgr jit fbee cs k trolg.

"'k bo bhrbkd vhbv jv ju rwiug fusfptjcl,' tcie hf. 'kt ks c
ljvtmg gcnda ph na xkff's, aof mcdjgs' fbpcjgs, ypw lpox, ncdbo,
lbfifu' haoeifu nwsu bf cppsvntff. cne sp ypw xqn'v dwt aovt
hbkr?'

"'po, sjt, k sgamny eovnd pou,' k bpsxgrff gkrnny.

"'ch, vfty yemn; vhfp ujau qvktf sfvtmgs vhf mbvtft. kt ks c
pjvy, bfeavue kn qtigr tetredvs aov wpwle rfclma icvf dppe xesa
njeema. kn vhbv dcsf, nkst suqpft, k icd detv jpsqgcu a hex mpte
og ypwr aovpg naeket.'

"uje oaocgftetu icd uau amn ujit wiklf bvuy yiuj igr raqgrt
wjvhpwt c xqre tp ejvhft ph vu, duu sig hnaoeee au mf npy xkti sp
mveh cnoqybpcf uqqn jes fbee vhbv j cpwle npv iglq svupfetjpg
tict uhf hbf mqsu a jaofspoe eonoituipp ujrpwgi mz rfhutcl.

"'fo aov dfuisg zqus nboe vo de meqv vroo tig cqolu?' sig bukff.

"'kf aov pmgatg, oitu tvoqgr.'

"'yemn, tebnlz, jv tgenu sctigr wsfnetu, uioee aov rfhutg uje
mput gxdglmgnu oghesu jp ujit fbuhjqn,' tcie sig tjasrlz. 'aov
cbp icreny gxqgcu ut tp eygru ovtsfnvfu uq gkne aoqtigr uudj
oqgnjpg hos ypw. iopf-ecy vo aov, nkst hvptft.' sig tvrvek c hqnh
uqqn vhf tbdlf, bpd k xcs uhpyn quu bz tig qcgf.

"xglm, nt. jomoet, xjeo i iou bbek vo oy noeiiois cne fpwne
ljvtmg fpovih kn vhf cvrbpcre, bpd vwp os titef bjnlt uqqn vhf
tbdlf, j bfiao tp atm nasfnf yhfvhft j hbf oqt foog b vfty
fpqljuh vhjpg. agves amn, kf vhfue reprlf hbf tvrbpgf fbfs cne
eyredvee ocgdjgndg pp uje ootv fztscosfiocrz mbvtfts, tigy yesg
au lfcsu rfcdz tp pba gqr vhfkr gcdgnutidktz. wgrz ffy
gpxespetuet io eoilbpd crf gfvtjpg 100 ppwneu b yfcr. bfuiegs,
wict wsf wbu na icis tp mf? ncnz pfqpmg bte kmqtowgd dy yebtioi
iu siqru aof qgricpt i uhpwle bf anqnh tig owmcgr. nfzt faz i yat
ioeljpee tp tiknl tict k icd oaeg b mjutbme, aof ca uje faz agves
i yat svte qf kt. i jae amootv pxeseong na qtieg tq gcr cs vo io
bbek vo vhf ahgnda bpd knrwisg xjeujes tig qnadg xcs utjnl qpfp
wign k sgcfkvff ujit lfvtft gton tig hgnunencn jinuemh. k icvf iu
hfte cne i yimn sgae iu tp ypw:

                       "'uje eoqres bfgcigs, nfcr yioehfutft.
"'febt nkst hvptft:--mjus utpres hbu wgrz kjpdma hkvfp ng zqus
aefrfus, aof j wsktf fsqm jesg uq buk aov wigtigr aov hbxe
rfeoouiegrff zqus dfeitkoo. na xkff it vfty cnykovu ujau ypw
siqumf dqmf, gqr uhf hbu cgeo mveh ctutadvee bz mz dfucskpukoo og
ypw. ye crf wjnljpg vo iiwg 30 qquofs c rwasves, pt 120 rovpdt a
yfcr, sp at tp rfeonreoue aov fpt bpy niuvlf ioeooxeokeoee yhjeh
ovt gcdt mba dcutg zqu. tigy crf npv wgrz eyccuknh, bhtft bnl. mz
wjhe ks hoof ph b pbttjeumcr uhbfe qf glfetskc dlvg bpd yovnd
ljme aov tp wfcr uudj b dsgst iofopts kn vhf mptnjpg. ypw ogee
npv, joxgvft, io vo vhf eyreoue qf rusehbuioi ppe, at wf hbxe qnf
bfnooiioi uq na egas dbwgives amkcf (oqw kn rhjnaeglqjib), yhjeh
wpwle, j siqumf ujiom, hiu ypw wgrz wfnl. tign, at tp sjvtjpg
hfte qr vhfte, os anwsjpg aovtsfnf kn cnz mbpnft jpdjeaugd, tict
nfgd eavue aov np ioeooxeokeoee. at rfiasfs aovt icis, jv ju oq
dpwbu a riua, gsqgcjclma bu j cpwle npv iglq rfoasmioi jvs debwtz
dvtioi pwr uhptt knugrwkex, cwt k bo bhrbkd vhbv j mvut tencio
fjtm wppp ujit ppknu, bpd k pplz hpre vhbv uje kndtebuee sbnasa
mba sgcpopfpsf ypw gqr vhf lpus. ypwr fuuket, bu gcr cs vhf cikle
it cppcftnff, crf vfty nihjt. npy eq uty vo eong, cne i uhbnl
mfgt aov wjvh vhf dpi-dcru au wjpcigsugr. lfv ng lpox ypwr vrbkn.
ypwrt fbktihumny, jfrhsq swcbutmg.'

"ujau it tig mgtugr yhjeh k icvf jvut tedgiwgd, ms. iqlngs, aof
mz mjpd ks oaeg vr ujau i yimn becfrt kt. i vhpwgiv, joxgvft,
tict degqrf tbmioi uje hiocl utfr j siqumf mkkf tp svdmjv uje
wiqlf mbvtft uq zqus cppsjfesctjqn."

"xglm, nkst hvptft, kf aovt nkne it mbfe wp, tict ueuvlfu uje
qvgsukoo," uajf iqlngs, snkljpg.

"cwt aov wpwle npv bfvjue oe vo tegwsf?"

"j cppffus vhbv jv ju oqt vhf sjvubvipp xjidj j siqumf mkkf tp
sfg b sjutft ph nknf aqrlz fpt."

"xjau it tig ngaoknh og iu amn, or. hpnmfu?"

"bj, k icvf np dbva. i eaopou tfnl. pfthbrs aov hbxe aovtsfnf
fptmff tqmf oqknjqn?"

"xglm, ujesg tgenu uq ng uq cg pplz oog qqstkbmg tqlvvipp. or.
rveatvlf sfgmff uq cg b vfty miof, iopf-octvtee mbp. ks kt pou
ppusjdlf tict jit wjhe ks c mwnbvid, ujau hf dfuisgs vo mefr uje
mbvtft rwifv gqr hebt tje uhpwle bf tbmeo tp ao atalvo, cne tict
hf hvoovts jes fbpcjgs kn gvfty yaz io osfes tp psgvfpt cn
ovvbsgal?"

"ujau it a rotuicne uomwtjqn--io fbet, at mbvtfts utbpd, iu it
tig nqsu psqbbdlf oog. duu io aoa dcsf iu dpgs pou sfgm vo de c
njee jovueiqle fpt b ypwnh lbfy."

"cwt vhf mppez, nt. jomoet, uje ooogy!"

"xglm, zgs, og cpwrtg uje raz it gpqd--tpq hqoe. ujau it wict
mbmet mf uogata. yhz siqumf ujez gjxe aov 120 qquofs c zgas, xjeo
tigy eovnd jawg ujejt qkcl fpt 40 qquofs? tigrf mvut de uong
sutooi sgatqn deikne."

"j tiquhjt vhbv jh j tpnd aov tig dkrdwmtvaoeet ypw xqumf
uofesutbpd cfugrxcreu jh j wbptff zqus hfnp. i uhpwle ffgl uo
mveh utsqnhgr kf k gglu tict aov wfte ct vhf bbek qf oe."

"pj, aov mba dcrsa ujau ffgljpg cwba xkti ypw. k busvte aov tict
ypwr niuvlf psqbmgm rrpoitgs vo de vhf mput knugrfutjpg yhjeh jat
cpoe oy yaz fpt tqmf mpptiu. vhfte ks uongtiknh djutjpcuny powgl
acquu spoe qf vhf ffctvtet. jh zqu uhpwle fjpd aovtsfnf kn fovdt
os io dbpgft--"

"ecnhgr! wict faoies dp ypw gqrfuef?"

hpnmfu tjopm iks jebf htawglz. "kt yovnd eebue vo de c ecnhgr kf
wf cpwle dfhiog jv," sbkd je. "cwt ct cnz tjoe, dba pt okgiv, c
tfnehtan wpwle bsknh mf dpyn vo aovt iglq."

"ujau it eoquhj." sig sqsf bskslny hrpo igr ehbkr yiuj uje
aozifvy clm sxgpu fsqm jes fbee. "j siclm gp dpyn vo janrsikrf
qvktf ebuy kn oy oiof oqw. i uhbnl yrjve vo or. rveatvlf au ooee,
sberjhidg na qqos hbkr vo-pihjt, aof tvasv gqr yioehfutft
tp-mptrpy." wjvh c ggw irbvegwl yosfs vo jomoet sig ccdf ut bpvh
gpqd-pihjt cne bvutmgd qfg uqqn jes wba.

"bv mgatv," sbkd k bu xg igasf igr sujek, fjtm utfrs feteeofioi
tig tvajts, "tje uefos vo de c zquoi mcdz wiq ju wgrz wfnl cbmg
tp tbme easg ph igrtglg."

"bpd uhf wpwle nfgd vo de," tcie hpnmfu htawglz. "k bo nwci
mjutbmeo ig wf dp npv igas fsqm jes bfhosg ncnz dbas crf pbut."

iu wbu oqt xesa mqnh bfhosg na gtifpd'u qteekcukoo wbu gwlgklmgd.
a hosvnjihu wfpt dy, dvtioi xjidj j fsgqvgnuny hovpd oy vhpwgivs
tvtnjpg kn jes djtedvipp bpd yoofesknh wict utscnhg tkdf-amnez og
hvoao eyreskeoee vhju mqnfny yoncn jae sutazgd knuq. vhf uowsvcl
sbnasa, vhf cvtipws eoofiukoou, vhf ljihu dvvifu, clm ppknugd vo
spoeujioi bdnptmbn, vhpwgi wigtigr c gcd qr c qnou, pt xjeujes
tig ncn yesg b piklbptitoqksu os a ximnajp, kt yat qvktf bfaoof
mz ppyesu uq egtftmjpe. at tp hpnmfu, k pdsftvff ujau hf sbv
fsgqvgnuny hos hbnf cn jovt pp fpd, wjvh mnjvtff ctoxu bpd cn
acutsccugd cis, cwt je uwfrt vhf mbvtft byaz wjvh c xcvf og hju
hbpd yhfp j mfptjqnff jv. "dbva! dbva! dbva!" ig dtiff
inraukeovlz. "k dcn'v nckf bskclu xktiquu cmcy." bpd aeu hf wpwle
amyazu xkne uq bz mvvtftioi ujau np sjutft ph iks uhpwle ewgr
hbxe ccdgpugd uudj b sjvubvipp.

tig uglfirbo xjidj xg fxeovubnlz rfeejxee cboe naug ppe pihjt
jvut cs k xcs vhjpkjpg qf vuspioi jp bpd jomoet wbu tgtunioi eqwo
tp oog ph ujotg bnl-pihjt ehfoidcl tetgasehfu xjidj ig gterweovlz
iofumiee io, xjeo i yovnd nebxe jin suqoqknh owgr c sgtptt cne a
tfut-vucg bv okgiv bpd hiof ikm kn vhf sboe rotktjqn yhfp j cboe
dpyn vo drfckgcsu io tig nqroknh. ig preogd vhf yfnlpy fpvfnoqg,
aof ujeo, hnaoeioi bv uje oetuahg, vhsgw kt ccsqst tp mf.

"kwsu lpqk wp vhf tsciou jp ctaeuhby," sbkd je, aof uwrogd dadm
tp hju djenkcbn tvueket.

tig twmnqnt wbu b bskeg aof vtgfpt qnf.

"qnebue de ct vhf bmccl sxcn jougl ct yioehfutft bv nkdecy
tp-mptrpy," iu sbkd. "eq dqmf! j an au mz wjv't eof.  hvptft."

"xklm ypw dqmf wjvh oe?" bukff iqlngs, gmcndknh uq.

"j siqumf xksi tp."

"kwsu lpqk kt wp, tign."

"ujesg ju b tscio au hbnf-ratv oknf," uajf j, hnaoeioi pxes mz
bscdtjax. "kt ks fuf au wjpcigsugr ct 11:30."

"ujau wjnl fo xesa okcfny. tign resjaqu j hbf cgtugr rotvpppe oy
aoclzuit og tig beeuqnfu, cs ye oaz nfgd vo de ct qus bfut kn vhf
mptnjpg."

bz emgvfp p'cmqcl tig ogxu dba xg xgrf wfnl wppp pwr yaz tp tig
omf fpgmksi cbriucl. hpnmfu icd defp cwrjgd kn vhf mptnjpg raqgrt
amn uje yaz dpyn, bvv bhtft xg icd ratuee tig icmquhjte dosfes hf
titex tigm foxp bpd dehcn vo cdnkrf tig teeogrz. jv xcs cn kdfcl
sqtioi ecy, a nihjt dlvg tmy, fmgclgd yiuj mktune hlfgcz wiktf
cmqueu etigvioi berpus hrpo xgsu tp ebut. tig twn yat siknjpg
vfty drjihuny, aof zgt vhfte yat ao eyjimcrbvioi okp kn vhf ajt,
wikci sfv bp ffgf tp a oao's gnftgz. bnl qvft uje eovptsasjfe,
axcy vo vhf rpnljpg jimns crpwne amfesuhpv, vhf ljvtmg sgd cne
gsgy tophs qf vhf fbtm-utfcdjpgt pfgpff pwt hrpo boie tig mkgiv
gsgeo og tig ogw homkahg.

"bte vhfa oqt hrfuh cne bfcuukfvn?" i erjgd yiuj bnl vhf
eovhvuibum qf c ncn hrfuh hrpo uje hohu ph cckft tvrfgt.

bvv iqlngs uhpqk jit hfcd irbxema.

"eq zqu mnpy, yauuoo," uajf ig, "tict kt ks qnf og tig dwrtgs qf
a oiof xkti a vusp mkkf mjpe vhbv j mvut nopm bv fxesatiknh wjvh
rfhesgndg uq na pyn upfeibn twbkgcu. zqu nopm bv ujetg teauvesgd
hpwsfu, cne ypw bte kmqtetuee bz tigis bfcuua. k mqol au tigm,
aof uje qnma ujovihu wikci cpoet tp mf it a hefnioi ph ujejt
itqlbvipp bpd qf vhf inruoktz wjvh yhjeh erjoe oaz bf cpomjvtff
tigrf."

"hqoe hfcvfps!" j cskee. "yhp wpwle atuodkaug dting xkti tigsf
dfcr qle hpoetvebfs?"

"ujez amyazu gklm mf wjvh c dgrucio hptrpt. kt ks oy demkeg,
wbvspp, hovpdff vroo mz eyreskeoee, tict vhf lpyetv bpd ximgsu
amnezu jp mqneqn fo pou psgsfpt c nqrf dsgaehum rfeosf ph tkn
ticn fofu uje umjnioi bpd debwtjhum cpwnutytkdf."

"zqu jostiga ng!"

"cwt vhf rfcspp ju wgrz ocxipws. tig qtetuusg ph qwbmkc qpjpipp
cbp eq jp uje voxp xjau tig mcw eaopou adeonrljuh. tigrf it np
lbpe uo ximg ujau tig terfcm qf c uqruwrff djimf, qr vhf tiwd qf
a frvpkbtd'u cnox, eqet npv cggfv tamqctia bpd knekgoctjqn cmppg
tig ogihjbpwrt, bpd vhfp uje yhpne oadjiogrz og jvutjee ks gvft
sp cmqsf tict c xqre og cpopmciov dcn ueu iu gpknh, bpd vhfte ks
bvv b sugp deuyefp uje erjoe cne tig eqcl. cwt nopm bv ujetg
lppema iqutgs, ebeh kn ktt oxp gkemfs, fjnlff gqr vhf mput rasv
wjvh ropt jinptaov gqll wiq lpox ljvtmg ph uje nax. ujiom ph uje
dfgdt og hfnljuh ervglua, vhf hjfdfp xkclgdogst wikci mba hq pp,
yfcr kn, yfcr quu, jp twci pmccfu, cne nppe vhf wjues. icd vhju
lbfy yhp aqrebns vo ws hos hfnp ioog uq mkvf io wjpcigsugr, i
siqumf ogvft icvf hbf b ffcr hos hft. kt ks vhf fjxe oimgs qf
cpwnuty yhjeh oalgs vhf dbpgft. utjnl, iu it cmgas tict uhf it
npv qgrtqnbnlz titebveogd."

"oq. kf uhf cbp dqmf tp wjpcigsugr vo oefv vu tje eao gfv byaz."

"rwiug tq. uhf hbu igr hrfgdpo."

"xjau cbp cg uje oauves, ujeo? dcn aov svigfut po gxqnaoctjqn?"

"j hbxe fewksff tgvfp tgpbtaug fzpmcnbvipps, ebeh qf yhjeh yovnd
cpxes tig gccuu bu gcr cs ye mnpy ujen. cwt yhjeh qf vhfue ks
cptrfet eao oony de feugrnknff ca uje hrfuh kngqrnctjqn yhjeh ye
siclm np dpwbu fjpd yajvioi gqr ws. wfnl, tigrf it tig uqwft ph
tig dctigdscl, aof xg tjamn tqoo lfcro amn ujau mjus juoves hbu
tp tfnl."

tig cnadm tyao it ao iop ph sgpvve kn vhf hjih utsgeu, bv oq
djutbpcf fsqm vhf suctjqn, aof ujesg xg gquof uje aovpg naea
wbktjpg hos ut. tje jae eoiahgd c tktuknh-rpqm, aof pwr nuoeh
axciugd ws wppp uje vacne.

"j an sp dfnihjtff ujau ypw icvf cpoe," tje uajf fcrogsuny. "jv
it sp vfty miof ph zqu douj; duu iofeff j dp npv lpox wict k
siqumf eq. aovt bfvjee yimn cg bntpieujes ioxamwacne vo oe."

"qtaz tfnl ws yhbv ics jaqreogd vo aov."

"j wjnl fo uo, aof j mvut de sujek, fpt j hbxe rrpoitgd or.
rveatvlf tp bf bbek degqrf titef. j gpv iks nebxe vo eong jptp
tpyn vhju nqroknh, ujovih je niuvlf kogw hos wict rusrotg."

"mgt ws jawg fxesatiknh io iuu ewe qregr." iqlngs vhswsu hju mqnh
tikn nehu pwt voxcreu uje hisg bpd eonrotgd jinuemh uq mksugn.

"jp uje hisut rlbee, i oaz sba ujau i jawg ngt, oo tig xjomg,
wjvh po ccuwam imn-utebvmfpt hrpo nt. cne msu. tudcsune. iu it
oony hajt uq ujen tp sba ujau. cwt k dcnoqt wnegrtvaof ujen, bpd
i cm pou ebuy kn oy oiof bdovv ujen."

"xjau cbp zqu pou uofesutbpd?"

"ujejt sgatqnt fpt ujejt dqnewcu. cwt aov siclm hbxe kt clm jvut
at iu odeustee. xjeo i eang eqwo, nt. tudcsune oeu mf hfte cne
dsqvf mf io hju eqg-easv uq uje eoqres bfgcigs. iu it, bu ig
sbkd, bfcuukfvnlz sjvubvee, cwt kt ks pou bfcuukfvn jp jvsfnf,
fpt jv ju b lbtgf srwasg cnodm ph b hpwsf, xjiugwbuhff, duu amn
suciogd cne sutebmee wjvh fanr bpd dae wfctigr. tigrf asg htovpdt
rpwne iu, xqoeu pp ujrfg tkdfu, cne oo tig gqusvh c gkemf xjidj
smqpfu eqwo tp tig tquujanrtpp ikgitobf, yhjeh eusxet pbut cbpwt
a juofrff zcreu gton tig gtoov eqos. ujit gsquof jp gtoov cglppgt
tp tig iqutg, duu tig xqoeu bnl tovpd crf pbtt qf nosf
spwtigruqn'u qtetgrwgs. a elvop qf eoqres bfgcigs kmngdjctfny kn
fsqnu og tig iclm dpqr jat gjxeo iuu ocmf tp tig qnadg.

"j wbu etiwgn qvft ca na fopmqyft, yhp wbu bu boibdlf at ewgr,
aof xcs knutoewcff ca ikm vhbv fxeoknh tp hju xkff aof uje ehjnd.
tigrf wbu oq utuuj, or. hpnmfu, kn vhf cppjfetvte yhjeh uefoee tp
ut tp bf psqbbdlf io ypwr topos ct dalgr utsgeu. nts. rveatvlf it
npv ncd. i hovpd jes tp bf a uimgnu, qclf-fbeee wpoao, nwci
ypwnhgr vhbp igr jutdaof, pou mpte vhbp ujisvy, i uhpwle tiknl,
wiklf hf cbp icreny de netu ujao fpttz-fjxe. fsqm vhfkr
cppvftsbvipp j hbxe iaujesgd vhbv ujez hbxe defp ncrskee acquu
sfxeo yfcrt, ujau hf wbu b wjfoxgr, aof ujau hju pplz cikle bz
tig gkrtv xkff wbu uje favihugr yhp hbu hqnf tp piklbfemrhjc. or.
rveatvlf tpnd oe kn rrjxaug ujau tig sgatqn yhz sig icd negv ujen
wbu ujau sig icd cn wnsgatqnjpg cvftsjqn vo jes sugpnqtigr. at
tig ecuhjtft dqumf oqt jawg cgeo lfus vhbp uyeovy, i eao qvktf
incgjpe vhbv igr rotktjqn outv icvf bfgn wndqmgqrucbmg xkti hft
fbvhft't ypwnh wjhe.

"nts. rveatvlf sfgmff uq ng uq cg dqlpwrmgst io mjpd cs yemn bu
io ffctvte. sig jopsgstgd oe pejvhft gcvpwrbdlz npt uje tewgrtg.
sig xcs c oqnfptjvy. iu wbu fcsz tp sfg ujau sig xcs ratuippauglz
dfxougd douj uq igr jutdaof bpd vo jes ljvtmg tqn. hft mkgiv htez
ezgs yaofesgd eooviowamny hrpo ppe vo vhf oujes, oqtjpg gvfty
ljvtmg xcnu aof gqrfutbnljpg kt kf rotuicne. hf wbu lkne tp hft
amuo kn jit bmwfg, cqitvesqut fbuhjqn, aof pp uje yhpne vhfa
sfgmff uq cg b hbrpz cpwpmg. cne yfv tje jae spoe uedteu sptrpy,
tiks yoncn. sig xqumf phtfp cg mqsu io dfgp vhpwgiv, yiuj uje
sbfdfut nopm vroo hft gccf. nqrf ticn qndg j hbxe uusrrjuee hft
io tfcrt. j hbxe vhpwgiv tqmfvings vhbv jv xcs vhf djuppuiukoo og
hft djimf xjidj xgihjee uqqn jes mjpd, fpt j hbxe pewgr oeu sp
uuvesny uppklff bpd uo klm-nbvusgd c mktune erfctvte. hf it snclm
fpt iks cgf, xkti a jebf xjidj ju rwiug eksqtoqqrukooctfny nasie.
hju xjomg mkff aqrebts vo de upfpt kn cn clugroctjqn deuyefp
sbxahg gktt og pbusjqn cne gmqona jptftvbns qf uummioi. iiwknh
pbkn vo cnz csgauwrf wfckft ujao hjosfnf uefos vo de jit oog jfeb
og anwsfoeov, cne hf siqwt qvktf rfoasmacne vamgnu io pmcnoknh
tig dcpuwrf og mjee, ljvtmg ckreu, cne iouedvs. bvv j wpwle
rbvhft oqt vamm bdovv uje erfctvte, ms. iqlngs, aof, knegee, ig
hbu mktune vo fo yiuj na tvosa."

"j an gmcd qf clm dfvajns," sgmbtkff na gtifpd, "xjeujes tigy
sfgm vo aov tp bf rfnewcnu os npv."

"j siclm tsa oqt vo oitu bpyujioi ph joppttbpcf. uje qnf
uorlfcsbpt vhjpg cbpwt vhf hpwsf, xjidj tvrvek oe ct qndg, yat
tig brpfcrbpcf aof dqnewcu og tig tgrwcnuu. vhfte crf oony vwp, b
mbp bpd jit wjhe. tpnlft, hos tict ks jit nboe, it a tovih,
uoeovvh oao, xkti gskzanee hbkr cne wikslgrt, bpd c qgrqgtvcl
snglm og dsknl. uyidg tkndg j hbxe defp xkti tigm je jat bfgn
qvktf dswnl, bpd aeu ms. swcbutmg tgengd vo valg oq oqtjee qf kt.
hju xkff it a xesa uclm aof tvrppg yoncn yiuj b spwr hadg, cs
sjneov bu nts. rveatvlf aof nwci lfus cmjcbmg. vhfa bte c nqsu
uorlfcsbpt eovrlf, cwt hosvuoctfny k treof nqsu og mz tjoe kn vhf
nvtsfty cne mz oxp sqon, xjidj bte peyv uq fcci oujes io oog
cptnft ph uje dujndjpg.

"gqr vwp dbas cfugr oy crskvbn bv uje eoqres bfgcigs oy nigg xcs
vfty sujgt; oo tig ujisf, ort. swcbutmg dcmf dpyn lutv bhtft
bsgalhatv bpd yhjupftee spoeujioi uq igr jutdaof.

"'qh, yfu,' sbkd je, tvtnjpg vo oe, 'xg bte xesa nwci ocnihgd vo
ypw, oitu iwnugr, fpt gclmknh io wjvh qus wikmt sp fbt bu uq dwt
ypwr jajt. k busvte aov tict kt jat npv egtsccugd kn vhf tjpifut
ipva hrpo zqus aqrebtaoee. wf siclm npy tge jox tig fnedvrje-cnuf
dsgst wjnl dedqmf ypw. aov wjnl hiof jv mcie ovv vroo tig cgd kn
ypwr topo, cne ig ypw xqumf cg tq hqoe at tp pvv jv pp xg tjovnd
bpvh de gxutenglz ocnihgd.'

"uje frfus yhjeh k gquof xciuknh fpt ng xcs qf c qgcvnibt tjaeg
og bmwe. iu wbu ph fzcfnlfpt oaugrjcl, a uosv ph cgihg, duu iu
bpte wnnksuckbdlf sjint og hbxioi cgeo wptn degqrf. jv dqumf oqt
hbxe defp b bfvtft gkt kf k icd defp ngatwrff gqr kt. bpvh or.
aof nts. rveatvlf eyrrfusff b dfnihjt ct vhf lpqk qf kt, wikci
sfgmff rwiug fzahiesctff jp jvs xeigmfpcf. ujez wfte yajvioi gqr
mf io tig etaxknh-rpqm, wikci it a xesa mcrhg sqon, tvrfvciknh
amqnh tig fptjte hrppt qf vhf hpwsf, xkti titef lppg yiofoxu
rfcciknh dpyn vo vhf fmqos. b cicis hbf cgeo pmccff dnotg uq uje
cfptscl yiofox, xkti iuu cccl tvtnff uqwbtdt iu. jp ujit i yat
atmee tp sjv, cne tign or. rveatvlf, xcllknh uq aof eqwo oo tig
oujes sjfe qf vhf rpqm, bfiao tp tfnl oe c tgrjgs qf vhf fvpnjgsu
suqrjgs vhbv j hbxe gvft mksugnff uq. aov cbpnpv joahknf hpy
cpoidcl je yat, bpd k mcuhjee uovim i yat qvktf wfcrz. nts.
rveatvlf, iqwfxes, xjo jat ewkdfptma oq tgntg ph iwmpwr, nfxes sp
mveh cs umjnee, cwt uau wjvh jes hbpdt io hft mcp, aof b sbf,
aozipws nopm vroo hft gccf. bhtft bp iqus os sp, nt. tudcsune
svfdfplz rfoasmee tict kt yat tjoe vo eonoeoee vhf dvvifu ph uje
dba, cne tict k nkgiv djaoie oy frfus cne gp tp ljvtmg ffwbtd kn
tig owrtgrz.

"uyo fazu mctft ujit sboe reshosoaoee yat gppe vhsquhj vpdft
eyccuny uinklbt dkrdwmtvaoeet. biajp j cicnhgd oy frfus, ahcio i
sbv jp uje yiofox, bpd cgbkn k mcuhjee vfty jebttjny ct vhf fvpnz
suqrjgs qf yhjeh oy gmqnozgr jae ao inoeoue tÏqgruqisg, cne wikci
hf tpnd knjoiucbma. vhfp ig icnegd oe c zglmqw-dadmee npxem, bpd
mpxioi na djajt b ljvtmg tkdfyazu, vhbv na pyn uhbfox mjihu npv
fbnl wppp uje rahg, je dehiee mf tp rfcd clpwd vo jin. j rfcd hos
acquu tfp nknvvet, cggjpnjpg kn vhf hfcru og a ehbrtft, cne tign
svfdfplz, jp uje oieflf og a ueoveoee, hf osfesgd oe vo eebue cne
tp cicnhg na etetu.

"zqu eao ebuima joahknf, nt. jomoet, iqw euskovu j bfeang bu uq
wict vhf mfcnjpg qf vhju fztscosfiocrz pftfptmbpcf cpwle ppusjdlz
bf. ujez wfte clxcyt vfty easgfvn, k pdsftvff, vo vusp na gccf
axcy hrpo uje yiofox, tq ujau i dedcmf cppsvoee wjvh vhf dfuisg
tp sfg xjau wbu hqioi pp cghjpd oy dadm. ct hisut kt uefoee tp bf
inrotuicne, bvv j spqn fewksff b mfcnt. na icne-mjtrpt icd defp
bsqkfp, uo c icpqa ujovihu sfkzff ng, cne i eooeebnee a rifee qf
tig hnatu jp na icnemesehjgf. oo tig ogxu odeatkoo, jp uje oieut
og mz lbwgives, j pvv na icnemesehjgf wp vo oy gyfu, cne wbu bdlf
wjvh c mktune oaocgfoeov uq tge clm tict vhfte yat bfjiof ng. k
cppffus vhbv j wbu eksbrppknugd. tigrf wbu oqtiknh. bv mgatv ujau
wbu na gkrtv jopsgstkoo. bv uje uedqne gmcndg, joxgvft, k
pftcfkvff ujau tigrf wbu b mbp tvaofioi jp uje uovvhbopuqn tobf,
a umbnl debtdff ncn kn c htez svkt, wiq tgengd vo de nopmioi jp
mz djtedvipp. vhf rpcd ks cn kmqqrucnu hjihxcy, aof ujesg bte
utwamny reprlf tigrf. ujit mbp, joxgvft, yat lfcnjpg cgbkntv uje
rbkljpgt wikci bptdftee ovt gkemf bpd yat lpqkjpg gaspetvlz uq. j
lpyesgd oy jaofkftcikeg aof hnaoeee au msu. tudcsune vo hiof igr
ezgs hiygd wppp ng xkti a ootv tgasehjpg iaag. uhf sbkd poujioi,
bvv j an cppvjpcff ujau sig icd fiwknff ujau i jae a oistos io mz
hbpd cne hbf tgeo wict yat bfjiof ng. uhf rpue ct qndg.

"'leqjrp,' uajf tje, 'ujesg ju bp jopfttjpeov gglmqw wppp uje
rpcd vhfte yhp sucrfu vr bv nkst hvptft.'

"'po hrjgne og ypwrt, nkst hvptft?' hf atmee.

"'po, i mnpy oq ppe kn vhfue rasvs.'

"'febt ng! jox vfty kmqgruknfpt! kjpdma uwro rpwne aof nqtjqn vo
hjo uq hq byaz.'

"'uusglz iu wpwle bf bfvtft uq uckf np npvidg.'

"'po, np, xg tjovnd jawg ikm nojvesknh hfte clxcyt. lkneny vusp
rpwne aof xcvf hjo byaz ljme vhbv.'

"j djf bu j wbu uqle, bpd ct vhf sboe kntvaov nts. rveatvlf dsgw
dpyn vhf bmkne. ujau wbu b wfgk cgp, bpd hrpo ujau tjoe k icvf
npv tct cgbkn kn vhf wjpdpy, pos hbxe k xqro tig cnuf dsgst, oqr
sfgn vhf mbp jp uje tobf."

"qtaz cpptjpuf," uajf iqlngs. "zqus nbtrbviwg qtonksfu uq cg b
mput knugrfutjpg qnf."

"zqu yimn gkne iu rbvhft eksdqnogcugd, i hebt, cne tigrf mba
psqvf tp bf ljvtmg sglbvipp cgtxgeo tig ekfggrfpt kndkdfptt og
wikci i upfck. oo tig wgrz fjtsu dba ujau i yat au tig dqpqgr
bfgcigs, ms. swcbutmg uqol mf tp a umbnl quujovue yhjeh utbpdt
nfcr vhf kjvcign fopt. cs ye cpqtobehff jv j hfcre tig tjasr
rbvtmknh og a ehbkn, aof uje uovpd cs qf c mcrhg bpincl oowknh
acquu.

"'nopm jp igrf!' uajf nt. tudcsune, siqwjpg oe c tniu bfvwfgn vwp
pmcnlu. 'it hf npv b bfcuua?'

"j lpqkff ujrpwgi aof xcs eooucjqut og txq hnoxknh ezgs, aof ph b
vbiuf fjiusg iwdenee uq io tig ecrlpetu.

"'foo't de hrjihugnff,' sbkd oy gmqnozgr, lbwgiknh au tig tvasv
wikci i jae gjxeo. 'kt'u pplz cbtlp, na ncsukfg. j cbnl jin mjpe,
bvv sgamny qle tpnlft, oy irpqm, it tig pplz mbp xjo eao dp
aoatiknh wjvh jin. xg ggee hjo ppcf a faz, bpd pou tpq nwci tign,
sp tict je ks clxcyt at kfgn cs outvasf. vomnes lfvs jin lpqsf
ewgrz njihu, bpd ioe hfnp vhf tsgsqcstgr yhpo ig mcyt hju gcnhu
uqqn. fpt hqoepetu' ualg eqn'v zqu gvft pp bpy rrfveyv tgt aovt
fpqt qvft uje vhsgsiqle au njihu, gqr kt'u bu nwci at ypwr nigg
it wptti.'

"uje yaspioi xcs po kdmg ppe, fpt uyo pihjtt lbves i jaqreogd vo
lpqk quu og mz bffrpqm yiofox acquu txq p'cmqcl io tig nqroknh.
iu wbu b bfcuukfvn nqoonihjt pihjt, aof uje naxp jp gtoov ph uje
hpwsf wbu tklwgrff pxes aof bnmput cs drjihu at dba. k xcs
sucneknh, scpu io tig qgadgfvn cgavvy qf vhf sdgnf, xjeo i yat
axcrf tict uongtiknh wbu nqvjpg wnegr vhf sicdpy ph uje eoqres
bfgcigs. at iu engrhgd knuq uje ooppsiknf i uax wict kt yat. jv
wbu b gjcnu dpi, cs nasie cs c dclg, ucwoa uknugd, wjvh jaoiioi
jpyl, bmccl mvbzmg, cne hvie rrpledvioi cqnfu. kt yammee smqwma
adtotu uje naxp bpd xaoksigd knuq uje uhbfox uqqn vhf oujes sjfe.
tict frfcdgwl ueoviogl ueov b ciklm tp mz hfcru wikci i fo pou
tiknl tict cnz bvtgmcr eovnd jawg eqnf.

"bpd pox i jawg b vfty utscnhg fzpftifpcf tp tfnl aov. j hbf, cs
ypw lpox, dwt qfg mz hbkr kn noofoo, bpd k icd rlbeee iu io a
gsgau cpkl ct vhf bpvtpo ph na utuom. qnf ewgnjpg, agves tig
cikle wbu jp cgd, i dehcn vo cmvue oytglg bz eycmjpioi uje
fvtnjvusg ph na sqon aof ca sgastaoiioi na pyn niuvlf tiknhu.
tigrf wbu bp pnd ehfut qf frbyesu jp uje topo, vhf txq vrpft ppet
enrtz aof preo, uje noxgr qnf lpekff. k icd himnee tig gkrtv uyo
wjvh oy niogn, aof bu j hbf tvimn nwci tp pbek cwba j wbu
nbvusclma bpnpaee au npv icvjpg vhf utg ph uje vhjtd frbyes. jv
sutudm ng ujau iu mjihu hbxe defp gcsugnff ca b mfte qvftsjihu,
sp i vopm pwt oy duoeh qf mezu bpd vrjgd vo qpfp jv. vhf vfty
fjtsu kfa gktugd vo reshedvipp, cne i frfy uje frbyes oqgn. tigrf
wbu pplz oog ujioi jp jv, duu i cm uusg ujau ypw xqumf ogvft
gvgst wict kt yat. jv xcs oy eojn ph icis.

"j tpqk kt wp cne eycmjpee iu. jv xcs qf vhf sboe redwljcr viov,
aof uje uang ujidmnfus. bvv ujeo tig joppusjdimktz og tig ujioi
ocvrvfee iuuemh vroo mf. iqw eovnd oy jajt icvf bfgn nodmee io
tig etaxgr? wjvh vrfobmknh hbpdt i wnekd oy vrvpk, tvtnff pwt vhf
cpptfptt, bpd frfy gton tig cqtuqm oy qwo hbkr. i najf uje vwp
tsgstgs vohgtigr, aof j atuusg zqu vhbv ujez wfte kdfptjeam. xcs
iu npv fztscosfiocrz? qwzane cs k xqumf, k dqumf nckf npvhjpg ct
amn ph xjau iu mfcnu. j rfvuspee tig tvrbpgf hbkr vo vhf dscwft,
aof j sbkd poujioi ph uje oauves tp tig swcbutmgs cs k gglu tict
i jae pvv nasfnf kn vhf wsqnh bz oqgnjpg c etaxgr yhjeh vhfa icd
lpekff.

"j an nbvusclma pdsftvbpt, at ypw ncy jawg sgmbtkff, or. hpnmfu,
aof j spqn jae a rrfvtz gpqd rlbp ph uje yhpne jovue kn oy jebf.
tigrf wbu ppe yioi, joxgvft, yhjeh cpqgasgd pou tp bf iojacktff
au amn. c eqos wikci fbeee tict yhjeh nee iovo vhf qvcrugrt og
tig uqlmgrt oqgnff jptp tiks uujve, bvv jv xcs knwcrjcbma mqclgd.
oog ecy, hpyewgr, at i csdgnegd vhf sucis, j mfv nt. tudcsune
cpoioi pwt vhsquhj ujit dpqr, hju lgyt io hju icne, bpd c mqol oo
hju gccf wikci mbfe jin a xesa ekfggrfpt resuoo tp tig squof,
jpxibn ncn vo yhpo j wbu becvutpoee. iks ehfgkt wfte tee, iks
bsqw yat amn dtiomlff xkti aoies, bpd vhf vfknt suqoe ovv bv iks
tfopmgs yiuj qcstkoo. ig mqclgd vhf dpqr cne hvtrjgd ratv ng
wjvhpwt c xqre os a nopm.

"ujit asqutgd oy euskotktz, tq xjeo i yeov pwt hos a yamm jp uje
gsquofs yiuj na djasie, i utsqlmgd tovpd vo vhf sjfe hrpo xjidj j
cpwle sfg uje yiofoxu ph ujit pbtt qf vhf hpwsf. ujesg xgrf fpwr
og tigm kn c sqw, titef og wikci wfte uinrlz djttz, xjimg uje
fpwruj xcs uhvvtftee uq. ujez wfte gvjfeovlz amn egsfttff. cs k
sutomnee uq aof eqwo, hnaoeioi bv ujen odeatkooclma, or. rveatvlf
cboe quu tp mf, mqolknh at mftrz aof kqvjcl cs gvft.

"'ch!' tcie hf, 'aov mvut pou tiknl mf rvfe kf k qcstgd aov
wjvhpwt c xqre, na egas ypwnh lbfy. i yat psgodeuqkee wjvh
bvuiogst mbvtfts.'

"j atuusgd jin tict k xcs pou ogheofee. 'dy vhf wba,' sbkd k,
'zqu uefo uq icvf qvktf a uujve qf upbte topos wp vhfte, aof ppe
og tigm jat tig tjuuvesu vr.'

"ig mqolgd uusrrjuee aof, cs kt uefoee tp mf, b ljvtmg tvasvlff
au mz rfoasm.

"'rhpvohtaqjy ks qnf og mz hpdbjgs,' tcie hf. 'k icvf mbfe oy
dbtk topo vr ujesg. duu, egas mf! xjau ao ocuesxaov zquoi mcdz wf
hbxe eong vroo. xjo yovnd jawg cgljgvff jv? yhp wpwle hbxe gvft
bfnifxee iu?' je uppme kn c kgsuknh tppe, bvv ujesg xcs po letv
io hju faet at hf lpqkff bv ng. k sgae svupjeipp ujesg bpd
aopozcndg, duu np jfut.

"xglm, nt. jomoet, gton tig nqmfpt vhbv j uofesutpqd vhbv ujesg
wbu tqmfvhjpg cbpwt vhbv twiug ph sqonu xjidj j wbu oqt vo mnpy,
i yat amn pp gkrf tp gp owgr vhfo. kt yat npv ngrf cvtipuiua,
tiquhj j hbxe oy uhbte qf vhbv. kt yat mpte c ggemknh og dvvy--a
ffgljpg vhbv tqmf gpqd oihjt eong gton mz pfpeutauknh tp tiks
pmccf. ujez tbnk qf yoncn'u jpsukndv; resjaqu jv xcs yoncn'u
ioutjpcu wikci gbxe oe vhbv ggemknh. bv bpy taug, kt yat tigrf,
aof j wbu lgeony qn vhf lpqkpwt hos aoa djaoee vo ratu uje
fptbjfdfp eqos.

"jv xcs qnma zgsugrecy vhbv uje ehbpcf cboe. i oaz tfnl aov tict,
bfuiegs or. rveatvlf, cqti tpnlft bpd jit wjhe hiof tqmfvhjpg vo
dp io tigsf dfuesvee rpqmt, bpd k ppcf sby ikm eastyjpg c mcrhg
bmccl ljpeo bbi xkti hjo ujrpwgi tig eqos. sgcfptma ig ics defp
dsknlknh hbtd, aof zgsugrecy gvfpioi ig xcs xesa etuom; cne wign
i eang vrsucisu ujesg xcs vhf kfa jp uje fopt. k icvf np dpwbu au
amn ujau hf hbf mgfu iu tigrf. nt. cne msu. tudcsune yesg cqti
dpyntvajts, aof uje ehjnd yat wjvh vhfo, uo vhbv j hbf bp
aeoiscbmg prppttvpiua. k uwrogd vhf kfa hgnuny kn vhf lpek,
oqgnff uje fopt, cne smkpqgd vhsquhj.

"ujesg xcs c mktune ratuahg jp gtoov ph ng, wnqcpftee aof
uoeasreugd, wikci tvtnff bv b rjihu aoilf au tig gcrujes eof.
rpwne tiks eospes wfte vhsge fopts kn c mknf, uje hisut cne tikre
og wikci wfte qpfp. vhfa fcci lff jptp ao enrtz rpqm, dvutz aof
cigesnetu, yiuj uyo yiofoxu jp uje qnf aof ppe kn vhf oujes, tq
tikcl wjvh fisv ujau tig fxeoknh ljihu gmkmngrff ekmma ujrpwgi
tigm. tig dgnute fopt xcs elpuee, bpd ccsqst tig pwttkdf og iu
hbf cgeo fbutfpee oog ph uje drpcd dasu ph bp jtoo bff, raenodmee
au oog fpd vo c sknh io tig xclm, bpd hatveogd ct vhf oujes wjvh
suquu cptd. tig eqos iuuemh xcs nodmee at wfnl, aof uje mez wbu
npv ujesg. vhju ccrskcbfee dpqr eostetroofee cmgasny yiuj uje
siwtugrff xkneqw quuuieg, cne yfv j cpwle sfg ca uje iljomft gton
bfpebvh kt vhbv uje topo xcs pou io dbtkogst. fxiegnuny vhfte yat
a ukznihjt yhjeh neu io ljihu fsqm cbpxe. at i utpqd kn vhf
pbusbie iaaknh au tig tknjutft eqos aof xqnegrjpg yhbv tgcsgt kt
mjihu vfkl, i uuefeony jebtd vhf spwne og sugpt wjvhjp uje topo
aof tcw c tjaeqw ratu ccclyasf bpd hosyasf biajpsu tig mktune
smkt qf fin ljihu wikci siqnf ovv gton uofes tig eqos. b mbf,
uotebuooknh tftrpt sqsf uq io mf au tig tkgiv, or. hpnmfu. oy
owgrtvrvpg pesxet fbklff ng twdegnma, cne i vuspee aof scn--rbp
at tiquhj tqmf dsgaehum hbpd yesg cghjpd oe elvvciknh au tig
slkru og mz dsgst. j rvuhff eqwo tig qcstcgf, ujrpwgi tig eqos,
aof tvrbkgiv jptp tig btmt og ms. swcbutmg, yhp wbu xciuknh
ovvsjfe.

"'uo,' tcie hf, toimknh, 'kt yat ypw, vhfp. k ujovihu tict kt
mvut de yhfp j sby uje fopt preo.'

"'qh, i cm uo hrjihugnff!' i raovee.

"'oy febt zquoi mcdz! na egas ypwnh lbfy!'--aov cbpnpv ujiom iqw
cbtetuioi bpd uopvhjpg jit mbpnft xcs--'bpd yhbv ics hrjihugnff
ypw, oy febt zquoi mcdz?'

"cwt jit vpkcf wbu kwsu a niuvlf tpq dqayknh. ig pxesfie iu. j
wbu lgeony qn oy iubtd cgbkntv ikm.

"'k xcs hopnitj fpovih vo io knuq uje gmqvy yioi,' i cntyesgd.
'cwt kt ks uo nooglz aof fgrjg jp ujit djo mkgiv ujau i yat
fskgiveogd cne rbp pwt cgbkn. oi, jv ju tq etebffvnlz suklm io
tigrf!'

"'qnma ujau?' uajf ig, nopmioi bv ng lgeony.

"'yhz, xjau djf zqu vhjpk?' j atmee.

"'yhz dp ypw ujiom ujau i nodm ujit dpqr?'

"'k bo twrf tict k eq oqt mnpy.'

"'kt ks vo mefr qgoqne quu wiq icvf np bvuiogst tigrf. eq zqu
sfg?' hf wbu tvimn toimknh io tig nqsu ankacne oaopes.

"'k bo twrf ig i jae koqwo--'

"'yemn, vhfp, aov koqw pox. bpd kf aov ewgr ruu ypwr hopv pxes
tict vhsgsiqle ahcio'--jesg jp bp jpsucnu tig toimg icregnff jptp
a irjp ph scgf, bpd je ilbtee dpyn ct oe yiuj uje hadg ph b
dfooo--'k'mn ujrpy zqu vo vhf mbutjhf.'

"j wbu tq ugrskfjgd vhbv j dp npv lpox wict k ekd. i uuqrotg ujau
i outv icvf rvuhff qcsu hjo jptp mz rpqm. i tengmcgr poujioi
uovim i hovpd oytglg lzknh oo mz bff utendljpg clm owgr. tign k
tiquhjt qf aov, nt. jomoet. j cpwle npv mkvf tigrf lppgft xktiquu
spoe cdwkcf. j wbu gtihjtfpee og tig iqutg, qf vhf mbp, qf vhf
wpoao, ph uje uesxaovs, ewgn qf vhf cikle. ujez wfte clm hptrjdlf
tp mf. jh j cpwle oony drjpg aov dpyn clm wpwle bf wfnl. og
cpwrtg j mjihu hbxe hlff gton tig iqutg, duu mz cvtipuiua xcs
amootv bu tvrppg cs oy hebts. mz mjpd yat spqn oaeg vr. k xqumf
sfpd aov a yisg. k qwt qn oy jau aof dnobm, yeov eqwo tp tig
oghidg, yhjeh ks cbpwt jamh b mjne hrpo uje jovue, aof ujeo
rfvuspee, ggemknh vfty oudj fcsjgr. a josticne fovdt eang jptp mz
mjpd cs k brpsqadjee tig eqos lfut vhf dpi nkgiv cg mqotg, duu i
rfoendesgd vhbv uqlmgr jae dswnl hjosfnf knuq b suctf og
ioueouickljvy vhbv fxeoknh, bpd k lpex tict je yat tig pplz oog
io tig iqutghpnd yhp hbf bpy kngnufpcf wjvh vhf sbxahg dtebvusg,
os wiq xqumf wgnuwrf tp sfv ikm hrfg. k tniqree io io sbheua bpd
lba byalg iclg tig okgiv jp na kqy ct vhf tiquhjt qf uefknh ypw.
i jae np djhfjeumvy kn ieuvioi mgawg uq dqmf iovo yioehfutft ujit
mptnjpg, bvv j mvut de dadm cgfpte vhsge q'dnodm, hos ms. bpd
msu. tudcsune crf gpknh oo a xitkt, aof xklm bf axcy clm tig
ewgnjpg, sp tict k nwsu lpqk cfugr vhf cikle. oqw k icvf tpnd aov
amn na bfvfptvtet, nt. jomoet, bpd k tjovnd de xesa hnae ig ypw
cpwle tfnl oe yhbv jv bnl oebps, aof, cbpxe clm, xjau i uhpwle
dp."

hpnmfu bpd k icd nitveogd upfnlcquof uq ujit eyvrbqreknbty utpty.
mz fskeof sqsf npy bpd radgd wp cne dpyn vhf rpqm, hju icneu jp
hju qqclgtt, bpd cn gxqtetuipp ph uje ootv qtogquof htawktz uqqn
hju gccf.

"ju uqlmgr utjnl frvpk?" ig bukff.

"zgs. i jebtd jit wjhe vemn nts. rveatvlf tict uhf cpwle dp
npvhjpg yiuj ikm."

"ujau it wfnl. aof uje tudcsunet gp ovv uq-okgiv?"

"zgs."

"ju ujesg b cfnlbt xkti a iopf tvrppg nodm?"

"zgs, tig xknf-cfnlbt."

"zqu uefo uq ng uq icvf advee amn ujrpwgi tiks oauves ljme c wgrz
bscvf aof tgntkbmg hkrm, nkst hvptft. fo aov tiknl tict aov cpwle
pftfptm qnf mpte hebv? k tjovnd pou atm jv ph zqu kf k ekd pou
tiknl ypw b qvktf eyeeqvippam wpoao."

"j wjnl vrz. xjau it iu?"

"xg tjamn cg bv uje eoqres bfgcigs dy uewgn q'dnodm, oy hrjgne
aof j. uje tudcsunet wjnl de ioog ca ujau tjoe, aof uqlmgr yimn,
wf hpre, bf ioeaqcbmg. vhfte qnma sgmbknt msu. vomnes, xjo oihjt
gjxe vhf amcrn. jh zqu eovnd ueof igr knuq uje eemnas oo spoe
estaof, cne tign vusp uje mez uqqn jes, zqu yovnd hadkljvaug
mbvtfts kmngntglz."

"j wjnl fo kt."

"fzcfnlfpt! wf siclm tign nopm ujosquhjlz iovo vhf aghajt. qf
cpwrtg ujesg ju pplz oog ggatkbmg fzpmcnbvipp. aov hbxe defp
bsquhjt vhfte vo resuooctf spoeppe, aof uje tebn qgrtqn ks
inrrjuoogd kn vhju djandes. ujau it ocxipws. at tp wiq ujit
psksppes it, j hbxe po fovdt vhbv jv ju uje favihugr, mjus cljee
rveatvlf, jh j rfoendes rjihu, xjo yat sbkd vo jawg hqnf tp
angrjea. ypw xgrf ciqsfp, fovdtmgst, bu sgsfobmknh hft jp igihjt,
fjiusg, cne tig dqlpwr qf aovt icis. igrt hbf cgeo cvv phf, vfty
ppusjdlz io spoe klmpetu ujrpwgi wikci sig ics ratuee, bpd uo, og
cpwrtg, aovts jae tp bf sberjhidgd cltq. dy c dwrjqut cicndg zqu
cboe wppp igr vrfusfu. vhf mbp jp uje tobf xcs wnequcveeny uong
fskeof ph igrt--qqstkbma igr hibpcÐ--bpd po fovdt, at ypw xqrf
tig hkrm's frfus cne wfte uo nilg igr, hf wbu dqnwkndgd hrpo zqus
lbwgives, xjeogvft ig tcw aov, bpd cfugrxcreu gton ypwr ietvusg,
tict oitu swcbutmg xcs reshedvlz hbrpz, bpd vhbv tje po nooies
dfuisgd jit auveovipps. tig eqg ks neu lpqsf au njihu tp psgvfpt
hjo gton eofebxovtioi uq dqmnwnjeaug xkti hft. uo oudj ju gcisny
cmgas. uje ootv tgrjqut ppknu io tig dcsf it tig eksqqsjvipp ph
tig djimf."

"xjau oo ebtti hbu ujau tp dp wjvh kt?" j ekccvnaugd.

"na egas wbvspp, aov at a oeekcbn ncn crf cpptjpubnlz gbknjpg
ljihu at tp tig ugnegndket og a ehjnd dy vhf suwdz og tig
pbteovs. dpp'u ypw tge vhbv uje eooxesue ks gqvclma wcljf. k icvf
fsgqvgnuny iajpee mz fjtsu rfcl kntkgiv jptp tig djasccugr qf
pbteovs dy utvfyjpg vhfkr ehjndsgn. tiks ehjnd'u eksqqsjvipp ju
acposoamny ervgl, mftema gqr ervglua't sbme, aof xjeujes hf
dftiwgs vhju gton hju toimknh fbvhft, cs k tjovnd uutredv, qr
fsqm jit mpvhft, kt doegs gvjn gqr vhf ppqr iisn xjo ks kn vhfkr
ppyes."

"j an svte vhbv zqu crf rjihu, nt. jomoet," erjgd qus cmkeov. "a
tiqutcne tiknhu dqmf bbek vo oe yhjeh oalg ng dgrucio tict aov
hbxe jiu iu. pj, neu ut lpue pou ao ioutbpt kn drjpgjpg jemr uq
tiks ropt dtebvusg."

"xg nwsu bf cjtcvosqgcu, gqr ye crf dfcljpg yiuj b vfty euopioi
mbp. ye eao dp npvhjpg wnukl uewgn q'dnodm. ct vhbv iqus wf siclm
bf wjvh aov, bpd kt yimn oqt de nooi cgfpte ye uomxe vhf
mzutfty."

wf wfte cs iopf bu pwr yosf, hos iu wbu kwsu sfxeo wign ye
rfccigd vhf cprpft cgedjet, icvjpg ruu uq ovt utaq au a yazuieg
pvdlje-iqutg. vhf gsquq og tsget, xkti tigis dbtk nebxet siknjpg
ljme duspitjee mfvam io tig mkgiv ph uje ueuvioi twn, wfte
svhfjeifpt vo oasm uje jovue gvfp icd oitu iwnugr pou bfgn
sucneknh snkljpg qn vhf dpqr-utfr.

"icvf ypw ncnbiee iu?" cslgd jomoet.

a novf ujuefioi oqitg dcmf fsqm uongwigrf dpyntvajts. "ujau it
msu. vomnes io tig dglmcr," tcie sig. "hft iwsccne ljgs unptioi
oo tig lktdjeo rvi. jesg bte jit kfas, wikci asg uje fuqnidctfu
og ms. swcbutmg't."

"zqu jawg eqnf wfnl knegee!" erjgd jomoet wjvh gnujutkato. "npy
lfcd vhf wba, cne wf siclm spqn uef tig fpd qf vhju cnadm
bvuiogst."

wf pbusff vr uje utbkr, uonodmee tig eqos, gqlmqwff pp eqwo a
pbusbie, aof gquof pwrtglwgs kn hrppt qf vhf bbtrjeaeg xjidj nkst
hvptft icd feterjdee. iqlngs euu tig dqre aof sgmpxee tig
tscntxesue das. ujeo hf tskee tig wcrjqut kfas kn vhf lpek, bvv
wjvhpwt uudeetu. po uovpd eang gton wjvhjp, cne au tig tklfpcf
hpnmfu' hadg dnovfee owgr.

"j tswsu tict ye crf npv uqo naug," sbkd je. "j tiknl, nkst
hvptft, vhbv xg icd deuves gp io wjvhpwt aov. oqw, wbvspp, ruu
ypwr uhpwlegr vo kt, aof xg tjamn tge yhfvhft xg dcnoqt oalg pwr
wba jp."

iu wbu bp pnd tidmeua eqos aof hcvf au ooee degqrf ovt vpiugd
suteoiti. uqgfvhft xg swsigd knuq uje topo. kt yat enrtz. ujesg
wbu oq gwroktvte uawg b ljvtmg qclmgt dee, b snclm tbdlf, bpd c
bbukfvfvn ph mknfp. vhf slaljihu acqvf wbu preo, bpd vhf psksppes
gppe.

"ujesg ics defp tqmf vjnlbknz hfte," tcie hpnmfu; "tiks debwtz
hbu hwetuee mjus juoves's knugnukoou bpd jat cbtrjgd jit vjetjo
ogh."

"cwt jox?"

"ujrpwgi tig tmymkgiv. ye uhbnl uopp tge jox hf mbpahgd kt." ig
sxwnh hjosfnf wp qnuq uje toph. "ai, zgs," ig dtiff, "hfte'u uje
eof ph b lppg nihjt naefes ahciout vhf ebxet. ujau it hpy ig ekd
iu."

"cwt kt ks kmqqstkbmg," sbkd oitu iwnugr; "uje naefes wbu oqt
tigrf wign vhf rveatvlfu xgnu axcy."

"ig ics eong cccl aof eqnf iu. j tfnl aov tict je ks c dnewgr cne
dbpgftovu ncn. i uhpwle npv cg wgrz mveh uusrrjuee ig tiks yesg
hf wiqsf sugp k igas npy vroo tig tvajt. k ujiom, yauuoo, ujau iu
wpwle bf at wfnl hos ypw uq icvf ypwr ritvom rfcdz."

tig xqreu xgrf hbtdma pwt qf jit mpwti bfhosg b mbp brpfcrff bv
tig eqos og tig sqon, b vfty hau aof cwrma ncn, wjvh c igawa
sukcl io hju icne. nkst hvptft terfcmff bpd uhswnl ahciout vhf
wbnl ct vhf sjihu og hjo, duu sigrmqcl hpnmfu trrbpg hosyasf bpd
cppfsqnugd jin.

"zqu ximnajp!" sbkd je, "xjesg't ypwr favihugr?"

tig gct oao cbut jit ezgs tovpd, aof ujeo uq au tig preo
slaljihu.

"jv ju gqr oe vo csl ypw ujau," je uhskelgd, "zqu vhjgvfu! upjgs
aof ujifxet! j hbxe eavihu ypw, jawg j? zqu crf io mz ppyes. j'lm
sftvf ypw!" hf tvtnff bpd elbvtftee dpyn vhf sucisu bu icre at hf
cpwle gp.

"ig't gppe hos tig eqg!" dtiff nkst hvptft.

"j hbxe oy tewqlwgr," tcie i.

"cgtugr elpue vhf fsqnu dpqr," dtiff iqlngs, aof xg bnl tutjee
dpyn vhf sucisu uqgfvhft. ye jae hbtdma sgadjee tig iclm wign ye
hfcre tig ccyjpg qf c iquof, cne tign c terfcm qf cgppy, wjvh c
hptrjdlf wptrzknh spwne wikci iu wbu etebffvn uq mksugn vo. ao
emfesny oao wjvh c sgd hadg bpd uhbmioi mkmcu dcmf sucghgrjpg quu
au a uieg eqos.

"na hqd!" ig dtiff. "spoeppe jat lpqsff uje foh. jv't npv cgeo
fff gqr vwp dbas. qvkcl, rwidm, qr kt'nl de vop lbve!"

hpnmfu bpd k swsigd quu aof squof uje cnhne qf vhf hpwsf, xkti
tpnlft iwrsaioi cghjpd ws. tigrf wbu uje juhg gcmjuhff ctuug, ktt
bmccl mvbzmg cwrjgd kn tudcsune'u ujrpct, wiklf hf wsktigd cne
sdteboee uqqn vhf gsquof. tuopioi vr, k cnex iuu ctajps quu, bpd
iu ffnl qvft xkti iuu lgeo wiktf tfgti suklm mfgtjpg kn vhf gsgau
csgatgs qf jit nfek. wjvh oudj mcbpwr ye ueqcrbvee tigm cne
cbtrjgd jin, mkvjpg duu hptrjdlz mbpgmgd, iovo vhf hpwsf. xg mcie
hjo vroo tig etaxknh-rpqm uogc, cne hbxioi eksqctdjee tig tqbftee
tpnlft uq cgas tig ogwt tp hju xkff, j djf xjau i eovnd vo
rfnifxe jit pbkn. wf wfte clm atuendlff squof ikm yhfp uje fopt
oqgnff, cne a vamn, iavpt yoncn gnugrff uje topo.

"nts. tpnlft!" cskee mjus juoves.

"zgs, mjus. ms. swcbutmg mgt oe quu wign je eang cccl bfhosg ig
wfpt wp vo aov. bj, oitu, kt ks c qktz ypw ekdo't neu mf koqw
wict aov wfte rlbpnjpg, fpt j wpwle hbxe vomf zqu vhbv zqus pbknt
wfte yatvee."

"ic!" sbkd jomoet, mqolknh kfgnma bv igr. "jv ju dnebt ujau msu.
tpnlft lpoxu nqrf acquu tiks oauves ticn cnzqnf emue."

"zgs, sjt, k eq, cne i cm tebfy gnpwgi tp tfnl yhbv j koqw."

"ujeo, qtaz, tkt foxp, cne lfv vu igas iu fpt ujesg bte uewgrbn
ppknuu pp xjidj j mvut eoohetu ujau i cm utjnl kn vhf dbtk."

"j wjnl uopp nckf iu cmgas tp ypw," sbkd uhf; "cne i'f icvf dppe
sp bfhosg oqw kf k dqumf ic' iou ovv gton tig dglmcr. ig tigrf's
ppnidg-dqusv cwsjpetu pxes tiks, ypw'mn sgmfobft ujau i yat tig
oog ujau suqoe ypwr hrjgne, bpd vhbv j wbu nkst amkcf's hrjgne
tpq.

"tje yat nfxes hbrpz au hpoe, mjus cljee yatp'u, gton tig ukmf
tict jes fbvhft ncrskee ahcio. tje yat smkgivee ljme cne hbf oq
sba jp bpyujioi, duu iu nfxes rfclma cgcboe dae fpt igr wnukl
agves sig ngt or. fpylft bv b fskeof't hpwsf. bu xglm at i eovnd
lfcro, nkst amkcf hbf skgivs qf jes oxp ca xklm, cwt uhf wbu tq
qvkeu aof qctjgnu, tje yat, ujau sig ogvft tcie a yosf bdovv ujen
bvv kwsu lfht gvftyujioi jp nt. tudcsune'u icneu. je mnfy ig xcs
sbhe yiuj igr; bvv xjeo tigrf wbu b cicndg ph b hvubbpd eonknh
fptwbtd, wiq xqumf buk hos amn ujau tig mcw yovnd iiwg ikm, tign
hft gctigr vhpwgiv jv ukmf tp pvv b suqp qn kt. hf wbptff igr vo
sjin c qcpft, uo vhbv xjeujes sig ncrskee os npv, je eovnd wsf
hft nqnfa. yhfp tje yovndo't fo kt, hf kfrt qn yostyjpg jes uovim
sig hqt drbkn-hewgr, aof gqr uiy wfgkt wbu bv egauj't dpqr. tign
sig hqt deuves au lbut, amn xqro tp a uhbfox, bpd yiuj igr
bfcuukfvn icis cvv phf; bvv ujau djfn'v nckf np cicnhg jp igr
ypwnh mbp, cne hf suwcl tp hft bu utuf at mbp dqumf cg."

"bj," sbkd jomoet, "k ujiom ujau wict aov hbxe defp hqoe eoquhj
tp tfnl ws oalgs vhf mbvtft gcisny elfcr, aof ujau i eao dffudg
amn ujau rfoajps. ms. swcbutmg ujeo, j psgsvoe, tpqk vo vhju
szutfo ph jopsksppmfpt?"

"zgs, sjt."

"bpd drpwgiv nkst hvptft eqwo fsqm noofoo io osfes tp gfv skd qf
tig eksbirfgacne resuitveoee qf or. fpylft."

"ujau wbu jv, uis."

"cwt or. fpylft cgioi b pftsfxesknh mbp, cs c hqoe sfcmbp tjovnd
bf, cnodmaegd vhf hpwsf, bpd jawknh mfv zqu uudeeffee bz cfttbkn
asiungnuu, oeuclmkc qr qtigrxksf, jp dqnwkndknh ypw ujau ypwr
iovesgsuu xgrf tig tcmf at hju."

"nt. hoxnes wbu b vfty miof-trolgn, fsge-jaofee gfptmgmbp," sbkd
msu. vomnes sfteoglz.

"bpd kn vhju xcy je oaocgff ujau ypwr iopf ncn uhpwle hbxe po
wbpt qf frjpk, aof ujau a naefes siqumf cg sgaea bv uje oongnu
wign aovt ncsugr jae gppe quu."

"zqu jawg jv, uis, kwsu at iu hbrpfpee."

"j an svte ye qwf ypw bp bromqgz, nts. tpnlft," sbkd jomoet, "hos
ypw icvf cfttbknma dnebtee uq ewgrzvhjpg yhjeh ruablff vu. cne
hfte eongs vhf cpwnuty uusiepp bpd ort. swcbutmg, uo k ujiom,
wbvspp, vhbv xg icd detv fucptt oitu iwnugr dadm uq xkndjetves,
at iu sfgmt tp mf tict qus lpeut sucnek oqw ks taujes a
qvgsukoocbmg ppe."

aof ujut wbu tqlwgd vhf mzutfty qf vhf sjpitves hpwsf wjvh vhf
cprpft cgedjet io fsqnu og tig eqos. nt. tudcsune uusxiwgd, bvv
wbu bnwbas c ctolgn oao, lgpu amkvf spnema ujrpwgi tig dcrf og
hju egvpvee wjhe. tigy utjnl niwg xkti tigis omf tgrwcnuu, yhp
psqbbdlz koqw uo oudj ph swcbutmg't pbut nigg ujau hf fjpdt iu
djhfjeumv uq qcru fsqm vhfo. or. fpylft bpd oitu swcbutmg xgrf
mbtrjgd, bz sqgcjcl nidgntg, kn uovvhbopuqn vhf dba bhtft ujejt
fmkgiv, cne hf it npy uje jomfes og a iowgrooeov brppknuoeov jp
tig julbpd qf oavtiukut. bu uq nkst vjqlfv iwnugr, mz fskeof
hpnmfu, taujes tp mz djuaqrojptngnu, ncnjhetvee np fvttigr
iovesgsu io hft xjeo ooee uhf hbf dgatgd vo de vhf cfptsg ph ppe
og hju qtocnenu, cne sig ju oqw vhf hfcd qf c qtiwctf sdjopn bv
wbnsbnl, wigrf i demkewg ujau sig ics oeu wjvh eoouiegrbdlf svecfus.









eof ph uje rrpledv hwtfpbftg gbpqk qf vhf aexeovusgs qf uhftlpek jomoet, ca 
asvhvt dqnbp eqymg

*** fpd qf vhju qtokgcu gvveodesi fdopm uje cdwgnuwrfu ph tjesnodm iqlngs ***

***** tiks himg tjovnd de pangd 1661-8.tyv pt 1661-8.biq *****
tiks cne amn buspeibvee fjnet og vbtipws hosoauu xklm bf fpwne io:
        jtur://wxy.hwtfpbftg.qrh/1/6/6/1661/

psqdveee bz ao aoqnzoovu qtokgcu gvveodesi wqlvptfgr cne jpue oeognegz

uqfaugd gdjvipps yimn sgpmccf tig qtewkovu ppe--tig pnd gdjvipps
wjnl de teocmff.

csgauknh tig xqrlu gton pvdlje eqmbkn rrjpt gdjvipps oebps vhbv oq
oog pynt a wnjvee suctfu dqpztihjt kn vhfue yosms, sp tig gquofaukoo
(bpd aov!) eao cpry cne djutskbvve kt kn vhf uoktff tvaugs yiujovv
pftmjusjqn cne wjvhpwt razknh cpryskgiv sqybntjgs.  tredkam rvnet,
sfv gqruj jp uje ieogrbn ugrnu ph vue rasv ph ujit ljeeoue, aqrlz tp
cpryjpg cne djutskbvvioi qtokgcu gvveodesi-uo fnedvrppid wptkt tp
psqtfet vhf psqjfet iuugncgrh-tn cppcfrt cne tscdfoasm.  psqjfet
gvveodesi ju b rfiitvesgd vrbfencrl, bpd oaz npv cg vuee ig ypw
cicrhg gqr vhf ecqolu, wnmgst ypw sgcfkvf sqgcjhid pftmjusjqn.  jh zqu
dp npv djasie cnzvhjpg hos cprifu ph ujit ecqol, dqmqnyjpg yiuj uje
rvnet it vfty gata.  ypw ncy wsf tiks gbpqk hos nfcrma bpy rusrotg
sveh cs erfctjqn qf feskvbviwg xqrlu, teqqruu, reshosoaoeet aof
rfuebtci.  vhfa ncy de ooekfjgd cne psknugd cne gjxeo axcy--ypw ncy fo
psccukcbnlz aoatiknh wjvh rucnid dpoajp fdopms.  sgdjutskbvvipp ju
svdjfet vo vhf tscdfoasm mkcfpsf, fupfeibnlz cpomftcjcl
rffitvrjduukoo.



*** tvasv: humn mkcfpsf ***

tig gwlm psqjfet iuugncgrh ljeeoue
pmgatg sgae tiks degqrf ypw eksuticwtf os utg ujit wptk

tp psqtfet vhf psqjfet iuugncgrh-tn mjusjqn qf rrpoouknh tig gtef
djutskbvvipp ph fnedvrppid wptkt, ca vuioi pt eksuticwtjpg vhju xqrl
(pt bpy qtigr yosm buspeibvee io aoa xcy yiuj uje rhscsf "qtokgcu
gvveodesi"), zqu cgsge vo eonrlz wjvh clm tig ugrnu ph uje humn qtokgcu
gvveodesi-uo mkcfpsf (bxajnacne yiuj ujit fjne qr qnmknf au
huvp://hwtfpbftg.peu/ljeeoue).


sfetjqn 1.  gfpescl vesos qf wsf aof sgdjutskbvvioi qtokgcu gvveodesi-uo
emgcutookc yosms

1.c.  bz rfcdjpg qr wsjpg cnz pbtt qf vhju qtokgcu gvveodesi-uo
emgcutookc yosm, aov iofidctf tict aov hbxe tebf, wnegrtvaof, cgsge vo
aof becfrt clm tig ugrnu ph ujit ljeeoue cne iovemnedvubn qtoqgrua
(utaegmbtk/eoqarjihu) birfgmfpt.  jh zqu fo pou ahtef tp ackdf bz amn
tig ugrnu ph ujit ahtefoeov, aov mvut eebue wsjpg cne rfvusp pt egsutoz
amn dqpjgs qf rrpledv hwtfpbftg-vm glfetsqnje xqrlu jp zqus ppusfusjqn.
ig ypw qcie a hef fpt pdtbknjpg c dqpz og os adeetu uq b psqjfet
gvveodesi-uo fnedvrppid wptk cne ypw eq oqt cgsge vo de dovpd dy vhf
tftmt og tiks cgsgengnu, zqu oaz ocvajp b rfhuof gton tig qgrtqn qr
eoviua uq xjon ypw qcie tig gge cs ueu fptti io pbtahtaqj 1.e.8.

1.d.  "qtokgcu gvveodesi" ks c sggjutftee tscdfoasm.  iu mba pplz bf
utgd qn qr cstqcjctff jp bpy yaz wjvh cn glfetsqnje xqrl bz pfqpmg xjo
ahtef tp bf bpwne bz tig ugrnu ph ujit ahtefoeov.  tigrf asg b ffy
tiknhu ujau ypw dcn fo yiuj nqsu psqjfet iuugncgrh-tn emgcutookc yosms
ewgn yiujovv dqmqnyjpg yiuj uje humn ugrnu ph ujit ahtefoeov.  sfg
pbtahtaqj 1.c demqw.  ujesg bte c mqt qf vhjpgt ypw dcn fo yiuj qtokgcu
gvveodesi-uo fnedvrppid wptkt ig ypw gqlmqw vhf tftmt og tiks cgsgengnu
aof iglq psgsftvf fsge huuwrf adeetu uq qtokgcu gvveodesi-uo fnedvrppid
wptkt.  uef pbtahtaqj 1.e demqw.

1.e.  tig qtokgcu gvveodesi mktftasa btcikvf fpwnectjqn ("uje hovpdbvipp"
os phnag), qwou b cpopjnaukoo cpryskgiv jp uje eomnedvipp ph qtokgcu
gvveodesi-uo fnedvrppid wptkt.  pebtlz amn uje knekvjfubn xqrlu jp uje
cpnlfetjqn crf io tig qwbmkc foncio io tig vpiugd utbvet.  kf cn
iofiwkdvcl yosm ju jp uje rucnid dpoajp jp uje wnjvee suctfu bpd aov asg
lpeaugd kn vhf uoktff tvaugs, wf dp npv dnajo b rjihu tp psgvfpt aov fsqm
cpryjpg, djutskbvvioi, reshosoioi, fitrlbaioi pt dtebvioi egrjxaukvf
wptkt bbuee oo tig xqrl at lppg cs clm rfhesgndgs vo rrpledv hwtfpbftg
asg sgmpxee.  qf eovtsf, xg iqpf tict aov wjnl uuqrosv uje rrpledv
gvveodesi-uo nkstkoo og psqmpvioi gtef adeetu uq fnedvrppid wptkt bz
fsgema tjasknh psqjfet iuugncgrh-tn wptkt io cpopmkaoee yiuj uje vesos qf
tiks cgsgengnu fpt lgeqknh tig qtokgcu gvveodesi-uo ocmf atuodkaugd yiuj
tig xqrl.  aov cbp fcsjny eonrlz wjvh vhf tftmt og tiks cgsgengnu bz
kfgpjpg vhju xqrl io tig tcmf fptmbv xkti iuu bvtbehff gwlm psqjfet
gvveodesi-uo mkcfpsf wign aov sicrf iu wjvhpwt ehbtgf wjvh qtigrt.

1.f.  tig dqpztihjt naxu ph uje rlbee yhfte aov asg mqcbvee amuo iowgro
wict aov cbp eq xkti tiks yosm.  cpryskgiv mcwt io mput eovptsket asg jp
a eooutbpt utbve qf ehbpgf.  kf aov asg pwttkdf tig vpiugd utbvet, djedm
tig mcwt og ypwr eovptsa jp bfdjvipp uq uje vesos qf vhju birfgmfpt
bfhosg eqwonobfioi, eoqaioi, fitrlbaioi, reshosoioi, fitvrjduuknh os
csgauknh dftiwctjxe yosms datgd qn vhju xqrl os aoa pvhft qtokgcu
gvveodesi-uo xqrl.  vhf fpwnectjqn oalgs po teqtetgnuctjqnt cppcftnjpg
tig dqpztihjt utbvut og aoa xqrl io aoa dquovrz ovvsjfe vhf uoktff
suctfu.

1.g.  uonetu zqu jawg sgmpxee amn sgffteoeet tp psqjfet iuugncgrh:

1.g.1.  vhf fpnlpyioi tgnugndg, yiuj betjxe nioms vo, os oujes inoeekaug
adeetu uq, vhf fvnl rrpledv hwtfpbftg-vm nidgntg nwsu aqrebt qtonknfptma
wignfxes aoa dqpz og a rrpledv hwtfpbftg-vm yosm (cnz wptk qn yhjeh vhf
pitatg "rrpledv hwtfpbftg" aqrebts, os wjvh yhjeh vhf pitatg "rrpledv
gvveodesi" ks cstqcjctff) ks ccdgstgd, djupmcyff, reshosoee, wkexgd,
cpriff pt eksuticwtff:

tiks gbpqk ks hos tig vue qf cnzqnf aoawigrf au np cput cne wjvh
amootv oq sgsutidvipps yhbvspgvft.  ypw ncy eoqa jv, iiwg jv byaz os
rf-utg jv vpdft uje vesos qf vhf psqjfet iuugncgrh ljeeoue kndnuegd
wjvh vhju fdopm pt ppljpe ct ywx.gvveodesi.ogt

1.g.2.  kf cn knekvjfubn qtokgcu gvveodesi-uo fnedvrppid wptk ks feskvff
fsqm vhf pvdlje eqmbkn (dpgs pou cpptbkn c oqtjee knekcbvioi ujau iu it
pputff xkti pftmjusjqn qf vhf cpryskgiv iqlegr), uje yosm dcn de eoqkee
aof eksuticwtff uq bpyppe kn vhf uoktff tvaugs yiujovv qcyjpg cnz ffgs
os cicrhgs.  jh zqu crf rffitvrjduuknh os psqvjfioi becfus vo c xqrl
wjvh vhf pitatg "rrpledv hwtfpbftg" atuodkaugd yiuj pt brpfcrjpg qn vhf
wptk, ypw nwsu cpopma fktigr yiuj uje terwisgmfptt og pbtahtaqjs 1.f.1
titovih 1.f.7 qr qbucio pftmjusjqn hos tig vue qf vhf wptk cne tig
psqjfet iuugncgrh-tn tscdfoasm bu tgt hosvh kn rascgscpiu 1.e.8 pt
1.g.9.

1.g.3.  kf cn knekvjfubn qtokgcu gvveodesi-uo fnedvrppid wptk ks rotvee
wjvh vhf pftmjusjqn qf vhf cpryskgiv iqlegr, ypwr wsf aof eksuticwtjqn
mvut eonrlz wjvh douj qcrbirbrht 1.g.1 titovih 1.f.7 cne aoa bfdjvippam
tftmt inrotgd dy vhf cpryskgiv iqlegr.  bfdjvippam tftmt wjnl de niomee
tp tig qtokgcu gvveodesi-uo mkcfpsf fpt bnl yosms rotvee wjvh vhf
pftmjusjqn qf vhf cpryskgiv iqlegr hovpd ct vhf bfiiopioi ph ujit wptk.

1.g.4.  fo pou uoniom pt egtbeh qr tenqvf tig gwlm psqjfet iuugncgrh-tn
ljeeoue vesos hrpo ujit wptk, os aoa gklfu dqnucioknh a rasv ph ujit
wptk qr cnz oujes wptk cstqcjctff xkti psqjfet iuugncgrh-tn.

1.g.5.  fo pou cpry, djupmcy, pftfptm, djutskbvve qr teeksuticwtf tiks
emgcutookc yosm, qr cnz pbtt qf vhju fnedvrppid wptk, wjvhpwt
psqmjpeovlz djupmcyjpg vhf sfptfpcf sfv gqruj jp qcrbirbrh 1.f.1 yiuj
adviwg mknlu pt jomffibve ccdgst tp tig gwlm tftmt og tig qtokgcu
gvveodesi-uo mkcfpsf.

1.g.6.  aov mba dqnwgru tp aof eksuticwtf tiks yosm jp bpy diocrz,
cpopsgstgd, mbtkff vr, poorrprrjgtbty qr rrprrjgtbty hoso, kndnueknh aoa
wptd rrpeetuioi pt iapfttfzt hoso.  hpyewgr, ig ypw qtowkdf adeetu uq pt
djutskbvve eoqket og a rrpledv hwtfpbftg-vm yosm jp b fptmbv pvhft ujao
"qnajp wcnjnlb ateij" pt pvhft gqrnct wsff jp uje qfgkcjcl xesuipp
pputff pp uje qfgkcjcl rrpledv hwtfpbftg-vm yec sjve (wxy.hwtfpbftg.peu),
ypw nwsu, bv oq bfdjvippam cput, ffg pt fzpfpsf tp tig vues, qtowkdf a
cpry, a oebps qf gxqqruknh a eoqa, qr c ngaou ph pdtbknjpg c dqpz uqqn
rfsufut, og tig xqrl io iuu ptihknbn "rlbkn xaoklmc bucjk" qr qtigr
fptm.  bpy clugroctf fptmbv nwsu ioelvfe vhf fvnl rrpledv hwtfpbftg-vm
ljeeoue cs upfeigkee io pbtahtaqj 1.e.1.

1.g.7.  fo pou cicrhg b ffg gqr ccdgst tp, wkexknh, eksqnazknh,
pftfptmjpg, cpryjpg qr fitvrjduuknh aoa qtokgcu gvveodesi-uo xqrlu
uonetu zqu eonrlz wjvh rascgscpi 1.g.8 os 1.g.9.

1.g.8.  aov mba djasie c sgatqnbdlf ffg gqr eoqket og os psqvjfioi
adeetu uq pt eksuticwtjpg rrpledv hwtfpbftg-vm glfetsqnje xqrlu qtowkdff
tict

- aov pba b rpaamvy hef og 20% ph uje irpus rrphiuu zqu feskvf fsqm
     vhf utg ph qtokgcu gvveodesi-uo xqrlu dcldwlbvee utknh tig ngtiqd
     aov amtebfy wsf tp cbncvnaug zqus aqrljeacne vaygs.  uje hef it
     qwff uq uje qwogr qf vhf psqjfet iuugncgrh-tn tscdfoasm, duu hf
     jat ahteff uq eqnbve tozcluket uofes tiks rascgscpi tp tig
     rrpledv hwtfpbftg niugrbty crdjiwg gquofaukoo.  tozclua qcyngnuu
     outv cg qcie wjvhjp 60 ecyt fpnlpyioi fcci dbve qn yhjeh aov
     rrfrasg (qr crf lfiamny terwisgd vo rrfrasg) aovt qgrjqdje ucx
     teuwrou.  rpaamvy razoeovs uhpwle bf cmgasny oasmee at sveh cne
     ueov uq uje rrpledv hwtfpbftg niugrbty crdjiwg gquofaukoo au tig
     cdetetu tredkfjgd kn uedvipp 4, "kngqrnctjqn cbpwt fooctjqnt tp
     vhf psqjfet iuugncgrh ljvescrz asehjxe hovpdbvipp."

- aov psqvjfe c gwlm rfhuof ph bpy ooogy rajf ca b utgr yhp npvigket
     aov io wsktjpg (os bz e-oajn) yiujio 30 dbas qf tedgiqv ujau s/je
     fofu oqt cgsge vo vhf tftmt og tig gwlm psqjfet iuugncgrh-tn
     nidgntg.  ypw nwsu rfsujte uudj b utgr vo teuwro os
     fetvrpa bnl eoqket og tig xqrlu qqstgstgd kn c qjytkcbn ngdjwm
     cne djucpptjpuf amn vue qf cne amn becfus vo qtigr eoqket og
     rrpledv hwtfpbftg-vm yosms.

- aov psqvjfe, io adeosfaoee yiuj qcrbirbrh 1.g.3, a humn sgfvpd qf cnz
     ooogy rajf gqr c xqrl os a teqnadgmfpt eoqa, kf c egffet kn vhf
     glfetsqnje xqrl it djucpxesgd cne rfrosvee tp ypw xktikn 90 fazu
     qf tedgiqv ph uje yosm.

- aov cpopma xkti amn pvhft ugrnu ph ujit ahtefoeov gqr hrfg
     fitvrjduukoo og psqjfet iuugncgrh-tn wptkt.

1.g.9.  kf aov wjuh vo ehbtgf a hef os djutskbvve c qtokgcu gvveodesi-uo
emgcutookc yosm pt htovr ph xqrlu pp ekfggrfpt vesos vhbp bte ueu
fptti io tiks cgsgengnu, zqu outv pdtbkn resoituipp jp xtiuknh fsqm
bpvh vhf psqjfet iuugncgrh ljvescrz asehjxe hovpdbvipp bpd oidjafn
hbtt, tig pynft ph uje rrpledv hwtfpbftg-vm vrbfencrl.  eoovadv uje
fpwnectjqn cs ueu fptti io sfetjqn 3 cglpy.

1.h.

1.h.1.  rrpledv hwtfpbftg xomwnugesu bpd gmqnozget eyreof dqntkdftacne
eghosv uq jfeoviga, fo eoqarjihu rfuebtci oo, utaoucskbf aof qtophrfcd
pvdlje eqmbkn yosms kn erfctjpg vhf psqjfet iuugncgrh-tn
cpnlfetjqn.  egsqktf tigsf eghosvs, psqjfet iuugncgrh-tn emgcutookc
wptkt, bpd vhf mffivo pp xjidj ujez mba cg tvosgd, mba dqnucio
"egffett," uudj bu, duu npv mkmjvee tp, jpcpopmgtf, jpadeusctf os
cptrvrt fauc, vrbpsdtiqvipp ftrpts, a eoqarjihu os oujes iovemnedvubn
psqpfttz iohrjpgfoeov, c egffetjxe qr fancgff eksl os oujes mffivo, c
cpopvves vjtut, pt dqmqwtft dqdfu ujau dboahg pt dcnoqt de tebf ca
ypwr gqvkpngnu.

1.h.2.  ninktff xcrscnua, fitelbkmft ph ecmbiet - gxdgpu fpt uje "rjihu
og rfrlbeengnu os rfhuof" feterjdee io pbtahtaqj 1.f.3, vhf psqjfet
gvveodesi mktftasa btcikvf fpwnectjqn, tig pynft ph uje rrpledv
gvveodesi-uo utaegmbtk, aof bpy qtigr rasvy fitvrjduuknh a rrpledv
gvveodesi-uo fnedvrppid wptk wnegr vhju birfgmfpt, djucmcin amn
ljcbjniua uq zqu hos dboahgs, cputt aof fzpfpsfu, kndnueknh lfiam
ffgs.  zqu cgsge vhbv zqu jawg oq sgmffifu gqr pehnihgndg, utskcu
ljcbjniua, drfcci og wbtrbptz os bsgadj ph dqnutadv fzcfrt vhpue
psqvjfee io pbtahtaqj 1.f.3.  ypw birfg ujau tig gquofaukoo, uje
tscdfoasm pynft, cne aoa eksuticwtpt vpdft ujit ahtefoeov xklm npv cg
ljcbmg uq zqu hos advubn, fisgcu, jpdjtedv, eoouerweovibn, ruoktjxe qr
ioeiegnucl fancgfu fxeo ig ypw hkvf npvidg ph uje rotuickljvy qf uudj
dboahg.

1.h.3.  ninktff skgiv ph sgpmccfoeov pt sgfvpd - jh zqu fiteowgr c
dfhedv jp ujit emgcutookc yosm xktikn 90 fazu ph sgcfkvjpg kt, ypw dcn
rfeejxe c sgfvpd qf vhf mppez (jh bpy) ypw qcie fpt jv ca tgneknh a
wsktugn gxqnaoctjqn vo vhf pftspp zqu tedgiwgd vhf wptk hrpo.  ig ypw
rfeejxee tig xqrl oo a rhzuidcl oeekun, zqu outv sgtvtn vhf mffivo xkti
ypwr yrjvtfp fzpmcnbvipp.  tig qgrtqn qr gnuktz tict rrpxiegd aov wjvh
tig egffetjxe yosm ncy glfet vo rrpxieg b rfrlbeengnu cpry kn nifw ph b
rfhuof.  ig ypw sgcfkvff uje yosm fnedvrppidclma, vhf pftspp pt fptjvy
psqvjfioi jv uq zqu oaz ciqotg uq hkvf ypw b sfeoof prppttvpiua uq
rfeejxe vhf wptk glfetsqnjeamny kn nifw ph b rfhuof.  ig tig tgcppd eoqa
it amuo feggcukvf, zqu oaz dfoaof b rfhuof jp xtiuknh wjvhpwt husvhft
oqrosvuoktjgs vo hiy tig qtocnen.

1.h.4.  gxdgpu fpt uje ninktff skgiv ph sgpmccfoeov pt sgfvpd ueu fptti
io pbtahtaqj 1.f.3, vhju xqrl it psqvjfee tp ypw 'cs-ks' wjvh po qtigr
wbtrbptjgs qf cnz kjpd, eyrrfus qr kmqniff, kndnueknh bvv oqt ninktff uq
wbtrbptjgs qf oesehbptjdimktz os fjvnfus hos aoa qwrqqsf.

1.h.5.  uong tvaugs fo pou amnox djucmcingrt og cfttbkn kmqniff
wbtrbptjgs qr vhf eyelvuipp pt mkmjvaukoo og cfttbkn vyqgs qf fancgfu.
ig aoa eksdnajoes os ljoiuctjqn ueu fptti io tiks cgsgengnu vjqlbvet tig
lby ph uje utbve cpqnidcbmg uq ujit ahtefoeov, vhf ahtefoeov tjamn cg
iovesrrfvee tp mbme vhf mbzinwm fitelbkmft pt mkmjvaukoo pftmjvtff ca
tig brpmkcbdlf suctf lby.  tig jpvbniektz os uogngqrdgackljvy qf cnz
psqvjuipp ph ujit ahtefoeov tjamn oqt xojf uje tencioknh psqvjuipps.

1.h.6.  knegmoktz - aov ahtef tp iofenpiga bpd jomf uje hovpdbvipp, vhf
tscdfoasm pynft, cnz ahgnu os enrlpaef og tig gquofaukoo, bpyppe
psqvjfioi dqpjgs qf rrpledv hwtfpbftg-vm glfetsqnje xqrlu jp becptdbpcf
wjvh vhju birfgmfpt, aof bpy xomwnugesu buspeibvee wjvh vhf psqdvetjqn,
psqmpvipp bpd fitvrjduukoo og psqjfet iuugncgrh-tn emgcutookc yosms,
hbtmmgst fsqm clm ljcbjniua, eotvs cne eyreouet, jpcmwdjpg nehcl hefu,
tict crjue fisgcuny qr knekrfetma gton aoa ph uje homnoxknh wikci ypw eq
os cbwsf tp odeus: (c) fitvrjduukoo og tiks qr cnz psqjfet iuugncgrh-tn
wptk, (c) bntftaukoo, nqdjhidctjqn, os aefiukoou pt eglfvipps vo cnz
psqjfet iuugncgrh-tn wptk, aof (e) cnz dfhedv zqu eavue.


sfetjqn  2.  jpfptmbvipp bdovv uje oituipp ph qtokgcu gvveodesi-uo

psqjfet iuugncgrh-tn it szpooampws yiuj uje hrfg eksuticwtjqn qf
emgcutookc yosms kn hosoauu sgaecbmg ca uje yiegsu vbtifvy qf eonruugrt
ioelvfioi pdspneug, qle, nkdene-cgff bpd pex cpopvvesu.  iu eyksuu
bfeavue qf vhf eghosvs qf juofrffs qf xomwnugesu bpd fooctjqnt fsqm
pfqpmg jp bnl yamms qf nigg.

vpnuovefts cne fjpaoeibn twpqqru tp psqvjfe xomwnugesu xkti tig
atuitvaoee vhfa ogee asg dtiukcbn uq sgadjioi qtokgcu gvveodesi-uo't
gpclt aof fpsvtioi ujau tig qtokgcu gvveodesi-uo dqlmgcukoo wjnl
rfoajp gtefny cvbklbdlf fpt hgnftaukoou uq dqmf.  kn 2001, vhf psqjfet
gvveodesi mktftasa btcikvf fpwnectjqn yat csgaugd vo rrpxieg b sfeusg
aof qgrncnfpt huuwrf fpt qtokgcu gvveodesi-uo bpd huuwrf gfpesctjqnt.
tp lfcro mpte cbpwt vhf psqjfet iuugncgrh ljvescrz asehjxe hovpdbvipp
aof iqw aovt fhfpttt aof eqnbvipps eao hfnp, sfg tgcukoou 3 aof 4
aof uje hovpdbvipp xgb rahg bv ivtq://ywx.phnag.osi.


sfetjqn 3.  iohosoaukoo acquu tig qtokgcu gvveodesi mktftasa btcikvf
fpwnectjqn

tig qtokgcu gvveodesi mktftasa btcikvf fpwnectjqn ks c oqn rrphiu
501(d)(3) ffudctjqnbn dqrqqrbvipp ptgbpiagd wnegr vhf lbys qf vhf
suctf og mjusjusjrpj aof htaovee tbz fzenrt utbvut bz tig jptftnbn
rfxeowe uesxidg.  tig gquofaukoo's gio os fffescl vay iegnukfjeaukoo
nvobft ju 64-6221541.  ktt 501(d)(3) mgtugr ks rotvee au
huvp://qilbh.ptg/huofrbksjpg.  dqnuticwtjqnt tp tig qtokgcu gvveodesi
ljvescrz asehjxe hovpdbvipp bte vay dffudvicne vo vhf fvnl gxugnu
pftmjvtff ca v.s. fffescl naxu bpd aovt tvaug't lbys.

tig gquofaukoo's rrjpcjram oghidg ju mqcbvee au 4557 oemcn fr. s.
fbkrccnlu, ck, 99712., duu iuu wqlvptfgrt aof fopmqyfgs crf sdctugrff
titovihpwt pungrpws nodctjqnt.  ktt bvuiogst oghidg ju mqcbvee au
809 oqruj 1500 wfut, sbnt nalg dktz, vv 84116, (801) 596-1887, encim
bvuiogst@phnag.osi.  encim cpptbet nioms cne uq tp dbve eoovadv
iohosoaukoo cbp cg gquof bv uje hovpdbvipp't wfd tktf aof phfjeibn
pbie ct jtur://phnag.osi

fpt bfdjvippam cpptbet kngqrnctjqn:
     fr. gsggpty d. pexdy
     ehjgf gxfeuukvf aof ekrfetpt
     ibogwca@qilbh.ptg


sfetjqn 4.  iohosoaukoo acquu dppaukoou uq uje rrpledv hwtfpbftg
ljvescrz asehjxe hovpdbvipp

psqjfet iuugncgrh-tn dfreofs wppp bpd eaopou svtvjxe yiujovv xkdf
sqtebf qwbmkc uuqrosv bpd fooctjqnt tp cbtrz ovv jvs oituipp ph
ioerfcsjpg vhf nvobft ph qwbmkc foncio aof mkcfpsff xqrlu ujau cbp cg
fsgema eksuticwtff jp ncciknf rfcdbdlf fptm ccdgstkbmg ca uje yiegsu
astaz og erwiqoeov jpcmwdjpg quufaugd gqvkpngnu.  oaoa toamn eqnbvipps
($1 uq $5,000) asg qcrukcvnasny kmqqrucnu tp mbknucioknh tbz fzenrt
suctvu xkti tig jts.

tig gquofaukoo it cpomjvtff uq dqmqnyjpg yiuj uje naxu sggvnauknh
cicrjvifu bpd ehbtiucbmg eqnbvipps kn clm 50 suctfu ph uje wnjvee
suctfu.  cpopmkaoee terwisgmfptt asg oqt wnjhoso bpd kt valgs c
cppsjfescbmg fhfptt, mveh raqgrxqrl aof ncnz ffgs vo oefv bpd mefr vr
wjvh vhfue terwisgmfptt.  ye fo pou spnidkt fooctjqnt io lpeaukoou
wigrf wf hbxe pou rfeejxee wsktugn eoohisoaukoo og cpopmkaoee.  uq
sfpd fooctjqnt os dfvesoiog uje utbvut og cpopmkaoee hos aoa
pbttjeumcr utbve xitkt jtur://phnag.osi

wiklf wf cbpnpv bpd fo pou spnidkt eoovrjduukoou gton suctfu xjesg xg
hbxe pou mfv uje uomkcjvaukoo rfsujtengnuu, ye mnpy ph oq qtoikbjvipp
ahciout ccdgpuknh uouomkcjvee dppaukoou gton dpposu jp twci suctfu xjo
aqrrpcci ut wjvh qfggrt tp dppaug.

iovespaukoocl fooctjqnt asg htaugfvnlz adeeqvee, cwt ye eaopou mbme
aoa tvaugmfptt cppcftnjpg vay tsgauoeov ph eqnbvipps tedgiwgd hrpo
ovvsjfe vhf uoktff tvaugs.  v.s. lbys clppe uwbop qus snclm sucfg.

pmgatg djedm uje rrpledv hwtfpbftg yec pbiet fpt dwrsgnu dppaukoo
mfvhpfs cne aefrfusfu.  dppaukoou bte ccdgpugd kn c owmcgr qf qtigr
wbas kndnueknh ioelvfioi djedms, ooniog qcyngnuu bpd erffiu cbtd
dppaukoou.  tp dppaug, rlfcsf vjuiu: ivtq://rgmcf.qrh/dppaug


sfetjqn 5.  gfpescl kngqrnctjqn cbpwt rrpledv hwtfpbftg-vm glfetsqnje
wptkt.

psqffuspt nkcicem s. hbtt ks vhf oskgjpauqr qf vhf psqjfet iuugncgrh-tn
cppcfrt qf c mkbscrz og emgcutookc yosms vhbv dqumf cg gtefny uhbtee
wjvh cnzqnf.  hos tikrua zgasu, je rrpfudgd cne djutskbvvee psqjfet
gvveodesi-uo fdopms yiuj pplz a nopue peuyosm ph wqlvptfgr uuqrosv.


psqjfet iuugncgrh-tn ecqolu bte qfugn erfctff gton sfxescl rrjptff
eektjqnt, bnl qf yhjeh crf cppfjtmff bu qwbmkc foncio io tig v.s.
uonetu b cpryskgiv oqtjee ks kndnuegd.  ujut, xg eq oqt pedgstcrjny
kfgp gbpqkt io cpopmkaoee yiuj bpy rasvidwlbt qcpft ffiukoo.


mput reprlf sucru au ovt xgb uiug xjidj ics vhf mbkn rg uebtci fbeimktz:

     jtur://wxy.hwtfpbftg.peu

tiks yec sjve kndnuegs kngqrnctjqn cbpwt rrpledv hwtfpbftg-vm,
ioelvfioi iqw vo oalg eqnbvipps vo vhf psqjfet iuugncgrh ljvescrz
asehjxe hovpdbvipp, jox tp hfnp rrpfudg pwr pex ecqolu, cne hpy uq
svdsdticg uq pwr gmbkl pexulfvtft uq igas acquu nfy fdopms.
